DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING WITH STUDY SESSION
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
December 11, 2014
1.
1.1

1.2

1.3
1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
December 11, 2014 – Bellingham High School Library, 2020 Cornwall Ave.,
Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Doug Benjamin, Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, President
Steve Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience
No audience presented
Annual Organizational Meeting
Dr. Gass made a motion to nominate Ms. Bashaw as President. Ms. Bashaw agreed to
serve in this capacity for the coming year. Ms. Hackler seconded the motion. Unanimous
affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to nominate Ms. Hackler as Vice President. Ms. Hackler
agreed to serve in this capacity for the coming year. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Dr. Smith recommended the appointment of Ms. Hackler to serve as legislative
representative for the upcoming year and she agreed to serve in this capacity.

2.0
2.1

STUDY SESSION
Study Session-Special Education/Community Transitions
Dr. Baker introduced Special Education Director Mike Haberman and Assistant Director
Bethany Verner. He praised both for an excellent job in engaging with staff, families, and
community partners in supporting our students. The purpose of tonight’s study session,
he said, would be to highlight the department’s work, with an emphasis on the
Community Transitions program, and to answer specific questions raised previously by
the board regarding the district’s special education program.
Mr. Haberman and Ms. Verner provided an overview of the district’s special education
programs via a PowerPoint presentation (Attachment A).
Special Education teacher Dominique Lantagne discussed the Community Transitions
program, including its history, mission, course offerings, eligibility requirements,
staffing, and its connection to The Bellingham Promise (Attachments B and C). She
introduced Community Transitions teachers Brett Evans and Elizabeth Madden and

Draft Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2014
Page 2 of 6
expressed appreciation to both for their effectiveness as part of a team that is dedicated to
the best interests of the students.
At 6:53 p.m., board members, staff, and some audience members moved to the
Community Transitions classrooms for a more in-depth conversation about the program
and to have an opportunity to interact with parents and students.
At 8:02 p.m., board members and others returned to the library, and the regular meeting
resumed.
3.

3.1

4.0

4.1
4.2
4.3

Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report – Dr. Baker updated the board on the
following:
 Lowell Elementary School (new gym, cafeteria, and classrooms): Site
development will start winter/spring of 2015.
 Happy Valley Elementary School (rebuild project): The administrative team has
worked closely with neighbors who had traffic-related concerns about the project’s
impact on the neighborhood. In late November, prior to making a final decision on
the schematic design and site plan, Dr. Baker invited neighbors to a special meeting.
In December, he sent a follow up communication outlining his decision to approve
the recommended design and preferred site plan of the Happy Valley Educational
Specifications/Design Advisory Committee. Dr. Baker commended Ron Cowan and
Tanya Rowe and their teams for their contributions to this effort.
 Parkview Elementary School (new addition): The Design Committee had its
second meeting this week.
 Conservation Site (visioning process): The Gordon Carter Environmental
Learning Center Vision Advisory Group is co-chaired by Executive Administrator
Rob McElroy and Doctoral Resident Anda Adams. The group was formed in October
to develop a vision and identify infrastructure needs to enable use of the site.
 Transportation: A bus route from Regency Park Apartments to Carl Cozier
Elementary School has been reinstituted. Dr. Baker expressed appreciation to the
administrative team, including Assistant Superintendent Steve Clarke, Assistant
Superintendent Ron Cowan, Executive Administrator Rob McElroy, and
Transportation Director Rae Anne Thon, each of whom worked closely in researching
this issue and coming up with an equitable solution for students and families.
CONSENT ITEMS
Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Dr. Smith, to approve the following consent
agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of Minutes of Nov. 13, 2014 Regular Meeting with Study Session: Action
on minutes as submitted.
Approval of Investments, Nov. 2014: Action on investments as submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, Nov. 2014: Action on expenditures and payroll
as submitted.

Draft Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2014
Page 3 of 6
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
4.9
4.10
4.11
4.12

Resolution 22-14, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund: Action on Resolution as submitted.
Whatcom Tech Prep Consortium: Action on agreement as submitted.
Washington Interscholastic Activities Association: Action on authorization forms as
submitted.
Student Activities Pay Schedule: Schedule approved as submitted.
Monitoring Report EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution: Review of monitoring
report as submitted.
Award Bid – Lowell Improvements Project: Recommendation to award bid approved
as submitted.
Authorize Negotiations for Architectural Services related to Parkview Elementary
School Improvements project: Request for authorization approved as submitted.
Personnel Recommendations: Personnel recommendations approved as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts: Personal services contracts approved as submitted:
Dept. of Teaching & Learning:
Christiana, Robert – Data Preparation for Program Evaluations from September 30, 2014 – June 30, 2015

Dawley, Diane – Home/Hospital Instruction Program Tutor from October, 2014 – June, 2015

Hollins, Tarra – Home/Hospital Instruction Program Tutor from October, 2014 – June, 2015

Stuckrath, Mary Jo – Read 180 Consultant from September 1, 2014 – June 30, 2015


4.13

Staff Travel: Staff travel approved as submitted:





4.14

Bellingham High School staff to attend the National Conference for the Education of Ceramic Art, March
25-28, 2015 in Providence, Rhode Island. Expenses will be paid through ISD funds, professional
development funds, and personal funds.
Alderwood Elementary School staff to attend the International Baccalaureate (IB) Primary Years
Program training January 31-February 2, 2015 in Vancouver, B.C. All expenses will be paid from
professional development funds.
Title I staff to attend the National Title I Conference, February 5-8, 2015 in Salt Lake City,
Utah. Expenses will be paid from Title I funds.
District administrator to attend the American Association of School Administrators (AASA) National
Conference on Education 2015, February 25-28, 2015 in San Diego, California. Expenses will be paid
from administrative professional development funds.

Student Trips: Students trips approved as submitted:








Bellingham High School Technical Entertainment Crew to travel to Universal Studios in Orlando,
Florida May 24-27, 2015. Travel expenses will be paid through student fundraisers.
Sehome, Bellingham, and Squalicum High School Debate Team students to attend debate
competitions. Competitions are February 5-8, 2015 in Spokane, Washington, and February 19-22, 2015
in Eugene, Oregon. Trip expenses will be paid by team fees and donations.
Sehome HIgh School choir students to travel for concerts to Olympia, Washington, Portland, Oregon,
and Seaside, Oregon May 14-17, 2015. Expenses will be paid through student fundraisers.
Sehome High School orchestra students to travel to concerts in Spokane, Washington and Couer d'Alene,
Idaho June 4-7, 2015. Expenses will be covered through student fundraisers.
Sehome High School music students to attend the All-State Performing Arts events in Yakima,
Washington, February 13-15, 2014. Expenses for this trip will be paid with ASB funds, Washington
Music Educators Association, and student fundraising.
Roosevelt Elementary School to attend Mountain School, May 18-20, 2015. Expenses for this trip are
covered by district initiative.
Kulshan Middle School eighth grade students to participate in the California Science Trip, May 20-23,
2015 in the San Francisco Bay area. Expenses will be paid from student fundraising, PTSA, and ASB
funds.

Draft Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2014
Page 4 of 6
5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
2013-14 Annual Financial Report: Mr. Cowan reviewed the report, received feedback,
and answered questions from the board. He said numbers at the close of the fiscal year
were better than projections, and the district’s financial condition is very strong. During
discussion, board members asked if a less comprehensive version of the monthly budget
summary could be posted on BoardDocs in lieu of hard copy distribution. Mr. Cowan
said the document could be posted on BoardDocs, but state law may preclude
presentation of an abbreviated version to the board. He will research and report back.
Ms. Hackler said she met school representatives at the annual WSSDA conference whose
districts used grants to fund programs similar to Promise K. Dr. Gass noted that our parttime grant writer, Gretchen Pfleuger, has been extremely helpful in procuring grants for
the district.

6.
6.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection: At the Nov. 13, 2014 meeting, the board
heard a monitoring report on Policy Governance EL-9. In keeping with Policy
Governance, the board members discussed the report to determine if the Superintendent
is in compliance.
Discussion focused on the level of detail that is desirable in EL-9 monitoring reports. Dr.
Gass said it would be useful if, in addition to raw data, certain benchmarks or
comparatives were included in the narrative. He said this would help the board perform
its fiduciary responsible to ensure district property is being appropriately maintained to
ensure teaching and learning. Others questioned whether such a level of detail would go
beyond what is required by Policy Governance. Dr. Baker recommended that this
evening’s feedback and questions raised be considered when the next EL-9 monitoring
report is being prepared for the December 2015 meeting.
Dr. Smith then made a motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to approve the EL-9 monitoring
report with the following notations and comments to be made to the summary worksheet.
Unanimous affirmative vote.
 The Board finds that the Superintendent is in compliance.
 With respect to EL-9, the Superintendent is exceeding expectations.
 Commendable developments since the last report:
o The number and scope of capital projects accomplished during this
period, with such a high degree of success, pushes the
Superintendent’s performance to well above expectations.
o The Superintendent has been very thoughtful in not only maintaining
existing assets, but also in determining how additional assets will be
added to the district.
 Areas for additional improvement: N/A
 Additional comments: N/A

Draft Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2014
Page 5 of 6
Consideration of proposed changes to the EL-9 policy will be part of the Jan. 15, 2015
board agenda.
7.
7.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Ends Monitoring Report 2.1, Part 1: Research and Assessment Director Brian Rick
joined the meeting via conference call.
Dr. Baker introduced Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland, who explained that tonight’s
report explores student performance in reading, mathematics, writing and science, and
compares our progress to comparable high-performing districts. Dr. Copland and Mr.
Rick pointed out key components of the monitoring report and responded to the directors’
feedback and questions. Board members expressed appreciation for the clarity and level
of detail in the report, noting that it was helpful to read stories pertaining to specific
students (pages 9 – 12).

7.2

7.3

7.4

In terms of future reports pertaining to Ends 2.1, it was agreed that Parts 2, 3, and 4 will
be spread out over board meetings in early 2015. The Board Response to Monitoring will
occur each time a section is presented. Once all sections are presented, a Board Response
to Monitoring will occur for the aggregate, resulting in one “final grade” for the entire
Ends 2.1 policy.
Board School Visits – evidence of the Bellingham Promise (Ends-3): Board members
shared reflections on the recent board visit to Geneva Elementary School. Summary of
comments:
 There is a sense that everyone at the school is working together.
 It was powerful to hear students’ voices, and to have a new teacher partner
with a veteran teacher for a presentation.
 Direct tie-ins to The Bellingham Promise are evident; for example, students
are recognized at assemblies for being “honest and ethical citizens who act
with integrity.”
 The culture-building and sensitivity to outcomes in The Promise were
impressive.
 It was evident that the new math curriculum at the lower elementary level is
being vigorously applied.
It was agreed that, going forward, a template recently prepared by Dr. Smith will be
distributed to board members for the purpose of recording observations during school
visits.
Governance Process: GP-7.1, Annual Board Agenda 2014-15: Following discussion,
Dr. Smith made a motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to accept the agenda as presented.
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board/Superintendent Relationship Policy Review: Following a brief discussion, Dr.
Gass made a motion, seconded by Dr. Smith, to accept proposed changes to the
following policies, as discussed at the Nov. 13 board meeting, including chronological
renumbering. Unanimous affirmative vote.

Draft Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2014
Page 6 of 6





8.
8.1
8.2
8.3
8.4
8.5
9.
9.1
9.2

B/SR - 1:
No Change in number
B/SR - 4:
New Number: B/SR - 2
B/SR - 5:
New Number: B/SR - 3
B/SR - 5.1: New Number: B/SR - 3.1
B/SR - 5.1.1 New Number: B/SR - 3.1.1

SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS
County and City Council Liaisons: Kelly Bashaw and Camille Hackler – A meeting
will be scheduled in the new year with City Council Liaison Roxanne Murphy.
Superintendent Review: Steve Smith and Ken Gass – no updates
Board Manual: Ken Gass and Steve Smith – This will be an agenda item at the board
retreat.
Policy Governance Enhancements: Steve Smith and Kelly Bashaw – no updates
Board Transparency/Community Connections: Kelly Bashaw – no updates
CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Dr. Gass assessed the meeting, with an overall rating of
5 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 9:50 p.m.

______________________
Kelly Bashaw
School Board President

Attest:

_____________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved:

