DRAFT Meeting Minutes: Community Linkage
Meeting Connecting with the City of Bellingham
Mayor’s Neighborhood Advisory Commission
April 23, 2015
Linkage Attendees:
 Representatives of the Mayor’s Neighborhood Advisory Commission (MNAC):
April Barker, Birchwood
Roberta DeBoard, South
Bill Dubay, Cordata
Steven James, Puget
Kay Reddell, Sehome
Sheryl Russell, City Center Neighborhood
Janet Simpson, Fairhaven





City Representatives: Mayor Kelli Linville, Vanessa Blackburn
Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz-Hackler, Steve Smith
Superintendent of Schools Greg Baker
District Leadership/Staff: Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland; Assistant Superintendent Steve Clarke;
Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan; Assistant Superintendent Bob Kuehl; Executive Director Kurt Gazow;
Executive Director Tanya Rowe; Executive Administrator Rob McElroy; Executive Secretary and Recorder
Lindsay Ahrens

1. Opening Items
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions
Kelly Bashaw, School Board President, called the meeting to order at 6:18 p.m. She welcomed the group and
introduced Dr. Baker. Following Dr. Baker’s welcome and opening comments, the invited guests, board
members and district staff introduced themselves and described their connections to the school district.
2. Meeting Purpose – Explanation of Community Linkage:
Ms. Diaz-Hackler thanked attendees for participating in this meeting. She explained that the school board
holds community linkages as an opportunity to strengthen our connections with our customers. These
meetings are an opportunity for the school board to listen and connect with our community. More specifically,
the board is seeking input on the goals we have set for our students through our board policies expressed in
The Bellingham Promise. She emphasized that the purpose of the meeting tonight was to listen to the
neighborhood representatives and hear thoughts about what is working, how we are connecting, what the
challenges are.
3. Large-Group Discussion with School Board
Ms. Rowe, the meeting facilitator, read this excerpt from The Bellingham Promise and said it would serve as a
focal point for this evening’s discussion:
 Students and graduates will be well-rounded community members engaged with the broader world.
Ms. Rowe said the following guiding questions would serve as a framework for tonight’s discussion:

Draft Meeting Minutes
School Board Community Linkage with
Mayor’s Neighborhood Advisory Commission
Page 2 of 3




How are Bellingham Public Schools developing well-rounded community members?
How might we work together to improve community and world engagement opportunities for all
students?

Summary of comments from invited guests:
 The Puget neighborhood is becoming more involved with Carl Cozier Elementary. Eric Paige, Carl
Cozier Principal, contacted the Puget Neighborhood Association and suggested an opportunity for
students to see how communities work by learning how the association is interacting with the proposed
housing development near Fred Meyer. The association has connected the students to Rick Sepler, City
of Bellingham.
 If the neighborhood groups had more information about what the schools or PTAs are doing, there
might be more ways to participate and be involved with the students and the schools.
 Cordata is a unique neighborhood in Bellingham because most of the school-aged children are in the
Meridian school district boundary. The Cordata neighborhood would like to see school involvement in
the community but it is difficult because the students who live in the neighborhood are bussed out of
district.
There was some discussion about why the students in this neighborhood go to Meridian schools and
how a student might transfer if they want to go to a Bellingham school. Dr. Baker clarified that district
boundaries are determined by the state, not by the school district or the city. There are district
procedures for both in-district and out-of-district transfers and other state laws that influence those
procedures. Although there has been talk in the past about changing the district’s boundary with
Meridian, it isn’t a process authorized by anyone at the table tonight. Initiating the process begins with
the community.
 In the Birchwood area, the community is very involved with the school. The principal has been
encouraging community and school interaction. The neighborhood representative commends the
district on the excellent job they are doing but also encourages more emphasis on neighborhood
schools for the distinct advantage they provide to the community. She also suggested further efforts to
connect with the Hispanic community and others who do not speak English as a primary language.
 The Art Walk is extremely telling about our school system and the quality and subject matter of the art
is amazing and impressive. She encourages music as an inclusion of the arts programs and is hopeful
that it is being well supported in Bellingham schools. She indicated this is important because of the
way it connects with the Bellingham Promise and in creating good citizens. There is also the question
of teens on the street – are these schooled kids; how are their needs being addressed by the district?
 A neighborhood representative suggested that the most important question for our students is the
curriculum and that teaching for understanding is more important than rote learning. She emphasized
that the district set a firm foundation in the early childhood years and that the inclusion of play is also
important to the whole child. A far as it pertains to The Bellingham Promise, she interprets every child
can learn at high levels means at their own highest level, according to their individuality.
 Wants to see the district meet challenge of bringing larger world to our children and to take advantage
of the cultural diversity that we do have in the city.
 Bellingham Sister Cities Association is very active in the community and there is a position for a
school board member on their board. Sehome High School hosts students from Chile in winter and
there are other exchange opportunities with our sister cities all over the world. Also, the city provides
many wonderful opportunities for field trips for Bellingham students as a great way to get kids out of
the classroom and into the community. Whatcom Middle School has been participating with the
municipal court and students from other schools have taken field trips to the wastewater treatment
plant. Tours of City Hall are available and will broaden students’ understanding of civic government.

Draft Meeting Minutes
School Board Community Linkage with
Mayor’s Neighborhood Advisory Commission
Page 3 of 3










There are many ways the city can partner with the schools and the mayor’s office would like to know
if there is any way they can help facilitate those relationships.
Bellingham schools have relationship with Mt. Baker Theatre and the city would be interested in
working out a similar arrangement with the museum to create more opportunities for less cost through
partnerships. There is an idea about Parks and Rec programs that are supervised in summer. Even
though funding for parks exists, there is a gap in programming. Neighborhood meetings in the schools
are the best way to begin to connect neighborhoods with their schools so if barriers to that access exist,
the city would like to see those removed. Most important is that students understand how city
government works. The mayor loves to visit the schools and connect with the students and have
students at the council meetings. Please consider the city elected officials as resources. Students at
Birchwood and Northern Heights have come to recite pledge of allegiance and sing songs at the city
council meetings and there are a number of other ways to connect students to their local government.
There should be an emphasis on teacher training around diversity. Also, there are interesting people all
over the city who could be resources to our students and connecting with the MNAC representatives
could help access those people. For example, the woman largely responsible for the plastic bag
ordinance is connected to one of the neighborhood advisory groups. There are other arts and science
opportunities in community such as testing water at Padden, the mural in Fairhaven, and community
gardens.
Lydia Place is in the Puget neighborhood. Remember that displaced and homeless children are also a
part of diversity and need to be addressed.
There are successful art projects with teens in other communities, such as a community band or a drill
team in an area of economically disadvantaged youth. Perhaps there is the possibility of connecting
street kids with Allied Arts on a project. To her knowledge, Bellingham Public Schools does an
amazing job with the homeless youth.
Let’s find people in community that embody the attributes we are looking for in our school. We know
the tendency for people is to find like when searching neighborhood. The hope is that school and city
and staff fix some of the mistakes of the past in the way we develop. Birchwood is lucky to be so
diverse but it is hard to develop well-rounded community members who don’t experience diversity
outside of their schools in other neighborhoods.

4. Closing and Wrap Up
Following the general discussion, Dr. Baker summarized key points. Although we focused on one portion of
The Bellingham Promise to begin the discussion, much of what was said touched on many aspects. The
Bellingham Promise is not just about the district, but the community as well. Tonight we heard multiple
examples of schools and community interaction. There are neighborhoods where the school is the center and
others that are more fractured. There is concern about being thoughtful as we grow and adapt. We heard
acknowledgements that The Bellingham Promise addresses the whole child, which includes the arts. Staff and
the school board are trying to respond to that because it matters to the whole child. We know early childhood
is a key strategy. School is not just what happens in our walls, but in whole communities. We want to
encourage kids to find a passion. When kids feel love and find a passion, we can get them connected.
Ms. Diaz-Hackler thanked participants on behalf of the school board and reminded guests about the link on
website to school board listening post if there are any additional comments.
The meeting adjourned 7:16 p.m.

