DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
AND EXECUTIVE SESSION
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 18, 2015

1.
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

2.

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
June 18, 2015 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
President Kelly Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present: Directors Doug
Benjamin, Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and
recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience:
No audience presented.
SUPERINTENDENT’S ANNOUNCEMENTS AND REPORT
Dr. Baker updated the board on the following:
 The National School Public Relations Association has named Bellingham School
District as a 2015 Golden Achievement Award Winner. This award recognizes
districts throughout the country for exemplary work in all aspects of school public
relations. Dr. Baker said this was an acknowledgement of the great work being done
by staff throughout the district and by Tanya Rowe, Executive Director,
Communications and Community Relations, and her team.
 The Community Transitions graduation was held this week. Graduation ceremonies
in the coming week include Bellingham (Friday); Squalicum and Sehome (Saturday);
and Options (Monday).
 The legislature has not yet completed work on the 2015-17 budget. The district’s
preliminary budget, which is part of this evening’s agenda, will be adjusted as needed
once the state budget is finalized.
CONSENT ITEMS
The following item was discussed prior to the vote for approval of the consent agenda:
June 4, 2015 draft meeting minutes: Following discussion, Dr. Smith made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Hackler, to amend the following agenda items: Page 1, Item 1.2; Page
3, Items 5.2 and 5.3; and Page 4, Item 7.1. The motion carried unanimously.

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 18, 2015
Page 2 of 3

2.1

2.2
2.3

2.4
2.5

Ms. Hackler made a motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to approve the following consent
agenda items. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes:
 June 4, 2015 Regular School Board Meeting: Action on minutes as amended.
June 4, 2015 Executive Session: Action on minutes as submitted
Action on Agreement for Services between FACES Northwest and Bellingham
School District: Action on Agreement as submitted.
Action on Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services between
Nooksack Valley School District and the Bellingham School District for the 2015
Migrant Summer School Program: Action on Agreement as submitted.
Action on Personal Services Contracts (4): Action on personal services contracts as
submitted.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations: Action on Personnel Recommendations as
submitted.

3.0

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Ends Monitoring Report 1.0, Strategic Mission and Vision; 2.0, Academic
Achievement; and 3.0, Skills and Attributes: Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland
and Director of Research and Assessment Brian Rick discussed a monitoring report
summarizing the district’s work this year in Ends 1.0, 2.0, and 3.0. Dr. Copland
acknowledged the work of the metrics team which included Mr. Rick; Director of
Teaching and Learning Anda Adams; Communications Manager Jacqueline Brawley;
Director of Teaching and Learning Amy Carder; Teacher on Special Assignment Susan
Cotton; and Executive Director, Communications and Community Relations, Tanya
Rowe. Dr. Copland said the monitoring report included evidence gleaned from school
board visits and linkage meetings to demonstrate progress made in the three ends
policies. He summarized the presentation by saying that The Bellingham Promise
outcomes are alive and well and are guiding work throughout the system.

4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring, Monitoring Report EL-2, Organizational
Continuity:
The board members discussed the comments, conclusions and suggested revisions on the
summary worksheet for EL-2. Dr. Smith then made a motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to
prepare a final Monitoring Response Document (Attachment 1) based on this discussion.
The motion carried unanimously.

5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
Preliminary 2015-16 Budget Presentation
Executive Director Ron Cowan, Assistant Superintendent Simone Sangster, and other
district staff reviewed the preliminary budget and responded to questions. After the
legislature has adopted a state budget, the final district budget for 2015-16 will be
presented at a regular board meeting in August 2015. Mr. Cowan recognized Director of

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 18, 2015
Page 3 of 3

5.2
5.3
5.4
5.5
5.6

Business Services Kathryn Weilage and her team and the Human Resources team for
exemplary work in the budget process.
School Board Directors’ Reports: County and City Council Liaisons: Kelly Bashaw
and Camille Hackler – no report
School Board Directors’ Reports: Superintendent’s Review: President and immediate
past president – no report
School Board Directors’ Reports: Board Manual: Ken Gass and Doug Benjamin – no
report
School Board Directors’ Reports: Policy Government Enhancements: Steve Smith
and Kelly Bashaw – no report
School Board Directors’ Reports: Board Transparency/Community Connections:
Kelly Bashaw and Steve Smith – no report

6.

NEW BUSINESS - none

7.
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Hackler assessed the meeting with an overall rating
of 5 (commendable).

8.
8.1

EXECUTIVE SESSION
At 8:30 p.m., the board entered executive session to review the performance of a public
employee (RCW 42.30.110(1)(g) and professional negotiations (RCW 42.30.140).

9.
9.1

RECONVENE TO OPEN SESSION
At 9:02 p.m., the board reconvened to open session.

10.
10.1

CLOSING ITEMS
The regular meeting adjourned at 9:05 p.m.

Kelly Bashaw
School Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved: July 16, 2015

