1.
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 12, 2015
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
Feb. 12, 2015 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(Board President), Douglas Benjamin, Kenneth Gass, Camille Hackler, Steven Smith,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience
Analiese Burns, a board member of the Nooksack Salmon Enhancement Association
(NSEA), addressed the board. The organization’s mission is to restore sustainable wild
salmon runs. Ms. Burns provided information on NSEA’s history and the educational
programs it offers to Bellingham Public Schools’ students. Ms. Burns also referenced
NSEA’s Salmon at the Bay celebration, scheduled for July 11, 2015.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report – Dr. Baker updated the board on the
following:
 Welcome Woodring College of Education students: Dr. Baker welcomed students
from Woodring College’s Educational Administration program who were observing
the meeting as part of their course requirements.
 Early Childhood Education: The second year of the Promise K program has begun,
with five classrooms in operation. Dr. Baker shared some first-day photos from
Happy Valley Elementary School’s Promise K classroom. He noted the program will
be featured in an article in the Feb. 15 edition of The Bellingham Herald.
Additionally, a second GRADS (Graduation, Reality and Dual-Role Skills) program
has opened at Sehome High School. Dr. Baker expressed appreciation to the Central
Services team and to Kristi Dominguez, Director, Teaching and Learning – Early
Childhood Education, for a phenomenal effort in getting both programs off the
ground in the middle of a school year.
 Website: Dr. Baker previewed The Bellingham Promise website, which is part of the
district’s website and demonstrates how Bellingham Public Schools is developing
students in alignment with The Bellingham Promise.
 Social Media: The district’s Facebook page has been launched.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting & Study Session
Feb. 12, 2015
Page 2 of 4





2.

2.1

3.

3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9
3.10
3.11
3.12
3.13

Lowell Web Camera: Dr. Baker shared the Facilities Project Camera page of the
district website which features periodic snapshots of the Lowell Elementary School
construction project.
School Start/End Times for 2016-17: Dr. Baker updated the board on changes to
school start/end times that are being considered beginning in the 2016-17 school year,
along with an extended school day for middle and high school students. Dr. Baker has
been meeting with high school classes and staff at all of our schools to share the
proposals and gather feedback. A brochure has been created that describes the
proposals in detail and includes an online survey to gather initial feedback.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Ends Monitoring Report, Part 2: Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland and Director,
Research and Assessment Brian Rick shared a PowerPoint relating to the monitoring
report on Ends 2.1 – Student Competence. Tonight’s report focuses on Item 4 of the
policy: student participation in post-secondary and career-ready courses. Following the
PowerPoint presentation, Dr. Copland introduced Squalicum High School Assistant
Principal Natalie McFarland and Squalicum High School students Karen Hernandez and
Lizbeth Gonzalez who shared their experiences and discussed the skills they acquired
through their participation in the Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID)
program.
CONSENT ITEMS
Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve
the following consent agenda items. Vote was unanimous.
Approval of Minutes of Jan. 15, 2015 Regular Meeting and Jan. 22, 2015
Community Linkage Meeting: Action on minutes as submitted.
Approval of Investments - Jan. 2015: Action on investments as submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll - Jan. 2015: Action on expenditures and payroll
as submitted.
Resolution 4-15, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund: Action on Resolution 4-15 as submitted.
Approve Emergency Response Grant Inter-Agency Agreement with ESD 112:
Approval of grant as submitted.
Authorize Negotiations for Architectural Services related to new Options High
School project: Action on request as submitted.
Contract - North Cascades Institute: Action on contract as submitted.
Agreement - Bellingham Technical College: Action on agreement as submitted.
Agreement - Agile Mind Educational Holdings, Inc.: Action on agreement as
submitted.
Adoption of Policy 2190 and 2410: Adoption of policies as submitted.
Personnel Recommendations: Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts (7): Action on personal services contracts as submitted.
Staff Travel: Action on staff travel as submitted:

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting & Study Session
Feb. 12, 2015
Page 3 of 4





Department of Teaching and Learning staff to attend The Teaching Channel Conference TeamsFest February 25-27, 2015, in Dallas, Texas. Expenses for travel will be paid from
educational technology funds and department of teaching and learning funds.
Special Education staff to attend the LRP (name of company - not an acronym) National
Institute April 26-29, 2015 in Denver, Colorado. Expenses for travel will be paid from
Bellingham Administrator Organization funds.
The following request is after-the-fact and was given earlier approval by Dr. Baker:
Sehome High School staff to attend the Universal Tech Institute for Science, Technology,
Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Conference February 5-7, 2015 in Sacramento,
California. Expenses will be paid through the Institute and with Individual Staff Development
(ISD) funds.

3.14 Student Trips: Action on student trips as submitted:










4.
4.1

Bellingham High School girls softball team to participate in the Softball Jamboree at Toppenish
High School, March 13-15, 2015. Expenses will be covered through student fundraisers.
Sunnyland Elementary School 5th graders to attend Mountain School March 25-26, 2015.
Expenses for this trip are covered by district initiative.
Sehome High School band to attend performances in Spokane, Washington, June 4-7,
2015. Expenses for the trip will be paid through fundraisers and family funds.
Squalicum High School and Sehome High School students to attend the Latino Educational
Achievement Project (LEAP) Conference February 26-28, 2015 in Tacoma,
Washington. Expenses will be paid with Family Engagement Funds.
Bellingham, Sehome, and Squalicum High Schools are requesting approval for Distributive
Education Clubs of America (DECA) students to attend the State Career Development
Conference/Competition in Bellevue, Washington, March 5-7, 2015. Expenses for this trip will
be paid from fundraising, ASB contributions, and student personal funds.
The following student trip request is a correction:
Squalicum High School Concert Choir and Storm Singers to participate in the Festival of Gold,
April 17-22, 2015 in Los Angeles, California. Expenses for this trip will be paid from Booster
support, family support and fundraising. This trip was approved at the January 15, 2015 board
meeting, but it was listed as a Squalicum High School band trip rather than a choir trip.
The following request is after-the-fact and was given earlier approval by Dr. Baker:
Squalicum High School and Bellingham High School band, orchestra, and choir programs to
attend the All-State and All-Northwest Music Conference February 13-16, 2015 in Spokane,
Washington. Expenses for the trip will be covered by fundraising and family funds.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring Report EL-3, Treatment and Communications with
Public, Parents & Students
At the Jan. 15, 2015 School Board meeting, the Board heard the Monitoring Report for
EL-3, Treatment & Communications with Public, Parents, and Students. In keeping with
policy governance, the board discussed if the superintendent is in compliance, is making
reasonable progress toward compliance, is not in compliance, or is not making reasonable
progress toward compliance with the policy. Following discussion, Ms. Camille made a
motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to include the following information in the monitoring
response summary sheet. Vote was unanimous.
 The superintendent is in compliance.
 With respect to the report reviewed, the superintendent is exceeding expectations.
For entire summary of responses, see Attachment A.
During discussion, Mr. Benjamin said it was helpful to him, as a new board member, to
review board responses to monitoring reports from prior years. Dr. Baker said this was a
helpful takeaway and would be a useful practice for each board member when
formulating responses.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting & Study Session
Feb. 12, 2015
Page 4 of 4

5.
5.1
5.2
5.3
5.4
5.5

SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS
County and City Council Liaisons: Dr. Smith and Ms. Hackler – no report
Superintendent Review: Ms. Bashaw and Dr. Smith – no report
Board Manual: Dr. Gass and Mr. Benjamin – It was agreed that the board will meet
prior to the March 27th retreat to review the latest version of the manual.
Policy Governance Enhancements: Dr. Smith and Ms. Bashaw – no report
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation Ex Officio Board Member (attends quarterly
meetings): Dr. Gass – no report

6.
6.1

STUDY SESSION
Study Session – Restorative Practices: Director of Teaching and Learning Steve Morse,
Northern Heights Principal Wendy Barrett, and Squalicum Assistant Principal Natalie
McFarland shared a PowerPoint on Restorative Practices, discussed how it ties into the
Bellingham Promise, and described several real-life scenarios that demonstrated how the
philosophy has been incorporated successfully into the district’s culture.

7.
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 5 (Commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 9:05 p.m.

7.2

_______________________________
Kelly Bashaw, School Board President

Attest:
_______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved: ______________

