DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 16, 2015
OPENING ITEMS
1.1
Meeting Date and Location:
November 16, 2015 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
1.2
Call to Order/Roll Call: Kelly Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Kelly Bashaw (President), Douglas Benjamin, Kenneth Gass, Camille Hackler,
Steven Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen
1.3
Audience:
No Audience Presented
1.4
Superintendent's Announcements and Report – Summary:
 Jonah Stinson, Director of School Safety and Emergency Management - Mr.
Stinson, who joined the district in September 2015, gave a Safety Culture and
Program PowerPoint presentation and answered questions from the board.
 Anda Adams, Director, Department of Teaching and Learning: Ms. Adams
presented an overview of professional development work underway in the district,
including the activities of the Joint District-BEA Professional Development Study
Committee. She said staff input helped in the development of the 2015-16 Staff
Learning Course Catalog, which she distributed. Most of the courses outlined in the
catalog will occur over four half-days in December, February, March, and April, and
district staff members are teaching almost all of them. Benefits of this process include
more choice for staff and the leveraging of the staff expertise that already exists in the
classroom.
CONSENT ITEMS
Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the following consent
agenda items: Vote was unanimous.
2.1
Approval of Minutes of October 22, 2015 Regular Meeting – Minutes approved as
submitted.
2.2
Approval of Investments – Investments approved as submitted.
2.3
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – Expenditures and Payroll approved as
submitted.
2.4
Resolution 31-15 Acceptance of Squalicum High School Skyroof Project – Resolution
approved as submitted.
2.5
Resolution 32-15, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund – Resolution approved as submitted.

Draft Meeting Minutes
November 16, 2015
Page 2 of 3

2.6

2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
3.

Resolution 33-15, New Board Member Participation - Washington State School
Directors' Association Annual Conference (WSSDA) – Resolution approved as
submitted.
Advance Tutoring Contract - Insurance Addendum (#1516-062A) – Addendum
approved as submitted.
One on One Learning Contract - Insurance Addendum (#1516-063A) – Addendum
approved as submitted.
Professional Tutors Contract - Insurance Addendum (#1516-064A) – Addendum
approved as submitted.
Everett Community College for College in the High School Interagency Agreement
(#1516-067) – Agreement approved as submitted.
North Cascades Institute (#1516-069) – Contract approved as submitted.
Graduation Alliance Scope of Work Agreement (#1516-072) – Agreement approved
as submitted.
Puget Sound Energy Incentive Grant #1516-070 – Grant accepted as submitted.
Whatcom Community Foundation Grant No. 6692 – Grant accepted as submitted.
Approval of Donations – Donations accepted as submitted.
Monitoring Report EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection – Report accepted as
submitted.
Personnel Recommendations w/ Attachment H – Personnel Recommendations
approved as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts (5) – Personal Services Contracts approved as s
submitted.
ACTION ITEMS
Dr. Baker provided background information on Item 3.1, noting board approval is
required on the two resolutions as part of the process required for the replacement
operations and technology levies which, if approved, will be on the Feb. 9, 2016 special
election ballot. He added that the Replacement Technology Capital Projects Levy will
maintain and enhance the district’s technology infrastructure and will expand the
educational program by phasing in the 1:1 initiative over the course of several years. He
said the decision to incorporate the 1:1 initiative is the culmination of many months of
work, including extensive research by the members of the Student Technology Think
Tank; site visits; careful analysis of input from students, families, and staff; and board
review of the initiative during a recent study session.
Dr. Baker said Item 3.2 relates to a request for the appointment of the following
committees: 1) Committee for the Replacement Educational Support and Operations
Levy and 2) Committee for the Replacement Technology Capital Projects Levy. The
district website includes information on the Whatcom County Auditor’s requirement to
appoint “for” and “against” committees for these types of ballot measures. If the district
receives notification by Dec. 1 from citizens who want to form a committee against the
measures, Committee Appointment Forms for Committees against the Replacement
Educational Support and Operations Levy and the Replacement Technology Capital
Projects Levy will be part of the December 10, 2015 regular meeting school board
agenda.

Draft Meeting Minutes
November 16, 2015
Page 3 of 3

3.1

3.2

Resolution 29-15 Replacement Educational Support and Operations Levy and
Resolution 30-15 Replacement Technology Capital Projects Levy – Following
discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve both
resolutions. Vote was unanimous.
Committee Appointment Forms – Committees FOR Replacement Educational
Support and Operations Levy and Replacement Technology Capital Projects Levy
Following discussion, Ms. Hackler made a motion, seconded by Dr. Smith, to approve
the Committee Appointment Forms for the Replacement Educational Support &
Operations Levy and the Replacement Technology Capital Projects Levy. Vote was
unanimous.

4.
4.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
 Dr. Gass attended a performance of Not So Grimm Tales at Fairhaven Middle
School; the Veterans Day Assembly at Columbia; and he visited classrooms at
Northern Heights Elementary School.
 Ms. Hackler attended a meeting of Western Washington University’s Professional
Education Advisory Board (PEAB), which included a discussion of the current
shortfall in numbers of certificated teachers.
 Mr. Benjamin attended a recent Sehome Visioning Meeting and noted great energy
in the room as people began for the first time to discuss their priorities for the
future Sehome High School.
 Ms. Bashaw attended the Opportunity Council’s 50th anniversary celebration at
Mt. Baker Theatre and congratulated Dr. Baker on his presentation to the group.
 The Washington State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) Annual
Conference is Nov. 19 – 22. Attendees include Ms. Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Ms.
Hackler, Dr. Smith, Dr. Baker, and newly elected board member Quenby
Peterson.

5.

NEW BUSINESS - NONE

6.
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Dr. Smith assessed the meeting with an overall rating of
4 (good).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:11 p.m.

6.2

