DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 16, 2015

1.
1.1

1.2

1.3
1.4

2.

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
July 16, 2015 - Library - Lowell Elementary School, 935 14th Street, Bellingham,
Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(President), Douglas Benjamin, Kenneth Gass, Camille Hackler, Steven Smith,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience:
No audience presented.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report:
Dr. Baker updated the board on the following:
 Budget: The Legislature has recently finalized the state budget, and our team is
analyzing the numbers. The district’s earlier budget assumptions were accurate. The
Legislature has committed to investing more in the state’s educational system,
resulting in extra revenues that will allow our district to continue its emphasis on
class size reduction, particularly at the elementary school level. Areas that will benefit
from increased revenues include special education as well as textbook and musical
instrument replacement.
 Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA): The U.S. House of
Representatives recently passed a reauthorization of the act.
 Facilities Projects: Excellent progress is being made on the Happy Valley and Lowell
Elementary School projects. At the close of tonight’s meeting, board members will
have an opportunity to view the Lowell renovation work.
 Education Research & Development Institute (ERDI): Dr. Baker updated the board
on his attendance at the 2015 Summer Conference.
CONSENT ITEMS
Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

Draft Meeting Minutes
July 16, 2015
Page 2 of 3

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8

2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
3.
3.1

Approval of draft meeting minutes of June 18, 2015: Action on minutes as submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, June 2015: Action on expenditures and payroll
as submitted.
Approval of Investments, June 2015: Action on Investments as submitted.
Resolution 15-15, Emergency Response Grant System Installation: Action on
Resolution as submitted.
Resolution 16-15, Amending Resolution 14-13: Action on amendment to Resolution as
submitted.
Resolution 17-15, Transfer Funds from the General Fund to the Capital Projects
Fund: Action on Resolution as submitted.
Resolution 18-15, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund: Action on Resolution as submitted.
Authorize Negotiations for Architectural Services related to new Sehome High
School and District Central Kitchen projects: Action on authorization for negotiations
as submitted.
Contract – Opportunity Council Early Support for Infants and Toddlers Program:
Action on contract as submitted.
Memorandum of Understanding – Sea Mar Community Health Center: Action on
Memorandum of Understanding as submitted.
Contract for Services Agreement – Whatcom County Health Department: Action on
contract as submitted.
Agreement – Northwest Educational Services District (NWESD): Action on
agreement as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts: Action on contracts as submitted.
Personnel Recommendations: Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring, Monitoring Reports Ends 1, 2, and 3:
At the June 18, 2015 board meeting, the board heard a combined monitoring report for
Ends 1 (Strategic Mission and Vision); Ends 2 (Academic Achievement); and Ends 3
(Skills and Attributes). In keeping with policy governance, the board discussed the level
of progress the superintendent is making in connection with these policies. Following
discussion, Ms. Hackler made a motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to include the following
information on the monitoring response documents:
 Ends 1, Ends 2, and Ends 3:
o The board finds that the superintendent is making reasonable progress towards
achieving the goals in each of these ends policies
o With respect to the report reviewed for Ends 1, Ends 2, and Ends 3, the
superintendent is slightly above expectations.
Vote was unanimous. Responses are summarized on Attachments A, B, and C.
During discussion, it was agreed that at a future date the board will develop some rubrics
as a tool to be used in the completion of these reports.

Draft Meeting Minutes
July 16, 2015
Page 3 of 3

4.
4.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
EL-2, Organizational Continuity:
Following discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, confirming
that no changes were needed to the EL-2 policy. Vote was unanimous.

5.
5.1
5.3
5.4
5.5

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
County and City Council Liaisons: Kelly Bashaw and Camille Hackler – no report
Superintendent’s Review: President and immediate past president – no report
Board Manual: Kenneth Gass and Douglas Benjamin – no report
School Board Directors’ Reports: Policy Government Enhancements: Steven Smith
and Kelly Bashaw – no report
School Board Directors’ Reports: Board Transparency/Community Connections:
Kelly Bashaw and Steven Smith – no report

5.6

6.

NEW BUSINESS – none

7.
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 5 (commendable).
Tour of Lowell Site: Board members recessed for a tour of the Lowell renovation
project.
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 8 p.m.

7.2
7.3

Kelly Bashaw
School Board President
Attest:

____________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved: ____________

