ATTACHMENT A
Monitoring Response Document – FINAL SUMMARY
Policy Monitored: Ends 2.1 (Part 2), Student Competence

B/SR 5.1.1

Date Report submitted: 2/12/15
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 3/19/15
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report and Data Set for Ends
2.1 – Part 2. Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his
representatives, the Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board find that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s)
noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
c. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
d. is not in compliance or is not making
progress is expected in some areas.
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
e. cannot be determined*
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 4 and/or 5)

2. With respect to the report reviewed, the Superintendent is:
Far Below
Expectations

Slightly Below
Expectations

Meeting
Expectations

Slightly
Above
Expectations

Exceeding
Expectations

3. Please note commendable developments since the last report.
a. The 2015 report on student participation in college and career ready classes is the
clearest and most comprehensive since E-2.1 was first adopted.
b. While the End specifies increased participation, it does not refer to a level of
performance. Nonetheless, it is heartening to see that increases in participation are not
associated with declining student averages as measured by the AP and SAT outcomes.
c. Having individual student stories and examples helps us see what the various programs
and district efforts look like in action. Including these student examples in both the
written and live presentations is a very nice addition to previous reports.
d. High school credits in middle school is a commendable development.
e. More students taking AP courses in our district is a commendable development.
f. The report displays the power of disaggregated data to display areas of solid progress
towards our student competence goals, while directing attention to students needing
more support, specifically Hispanic, Low Income and Special Ed. By focusing on one
component of the Student Competence Ends and further focusing on one school with
an exceptional program, Squalicum, the report provides the District leadership and the

board clear evidence of what is working and a path forward for greater student success
in rigorous college-level and career prep courses. Ends 2.1 sets very challenging goals
for the District by calling for all students to be successful compared to peers in
comparable high-performing districts. This report brings the analytic detail and the
honest assessment that will insure continued progress toward the goal that “All students
will succeed and grow...”
g. Inviting the students from Squalicum High School to the board meeting during the
presentation of the report was highly commendable; including biographies of students
in the report was a nice touch.
4. Please note areas for additional improvement.
a. There are scaling issues that make the report hard to interpret and compare to other
school data presented. A clearer discussion of the scaling choices would help to make
the report easier for the reader.
b. Increased participation of ELL and Special Ed students in dual credit programs is
desirable.
c. While this is the first year under the new reporting model, we look forward to seeing
more years of data to clearly show student trends and the results from more of our high
schools.

2

