DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 12, 2014
1.
1.1
1.2

1.2
1.3

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
June 12, 2014 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
Dr. Smith called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith (President),
Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen. Dr. Smith noted that Dr.
Stockburger was absent due to illness and Dr. Gass was absent due to an out-of-town
commitment.
Audience
No audience presented
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Dr. Baker reported on the following
items:
 While Walking in the Shoes of a 12th Grader, Bellingham High School students
presented Dr. Baker with hand-made posters describing The Bellingham Promise.
These are on display at tonight’s meeting, he said, and they serve as a good example
of how The Promise resonates with our students.
 Five graduation ceremonies have taken place in the past week. Dr. Baker thanked the
board members for their participation.
 Facilities:
o Birchwood Elementary School: board members are invited to participate in a
site visit July 17 at 4:30 p.m.
o The final meeting for this school year of the Happy Valley Educational
Specifications/Design Advisory Committee was held June 6.
o The Lowell Design Advisory Group held a community meeting last night,
during which the architect shared drawings based on feedback from
stakeholders.
 Principals have been hired to fill two elementary school vacancies: Mylo Allen at
Parkview Elementary School and Janae Hodge at Alderwood Elementary School.
 Tonight’s consent agenda will include ratification of the District/Bellingham
Education Association (BEA) settlement agreement. The four-year contract is focused
on students and great teaching with strong support. Teachers will have adequate time
for professional development without sacrificing instructional time in the classroom.
The district and association demonstrated outstanding collaborative teamwork. Dr.
Baker thanked Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland, Assistant Superintendent Bob
Kuehl, Executive Director Nora Klewiada, Executive Administrator Rob McElroy,

Official Meeting Minutes
June 12, 2014
Page 2 of 7

2.0

Northern Heights Interim Principal Janae Hodge, Lowell Elementary School Principal
Missy Ferguson, and Director of Teaching and Learning Amy Carder for their
contributions as members of the district’s negotiating team.
 In recent weeks, Dr. Baker has visited all 22 schools. Energy is high as the school
year is winding down.
CONSENT ITEMS
Prior to approval of the consent agenda, BEA President Shirley Potter read a statement
relating to the ratification of the BEA/District agreement. She acknowledged the BEA
negotiating team which, in addition to Ms. Potter, included BEA UniServ Representative
Greg Alarid and certificated staff members Stan Kreft, Ginger Thompson, Sara
Strommer, Shirley Prichard, and Brenda Goebel. Ms. Potter said that both teams tackled
complex issues in a collaborative way and worked hard to support their respective
interests. Both groups share a vision, she said, that is focused on student achievement and
continuous professional growth of staff. She expressed thanks to the district and the BEA
membership and said this contract would serve as a model for the rest of the state.
Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to approve the following consent
agenda items. Vote was unanimous.

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6

Approval of Minutes of May 8, 2014 Regular Meeting and May 28, 2014 Linkage
Meeting: Approval of minutes as submitted.
Approval of Investments: Approval of Investments for May 2014 as submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll: Approval of Expenditures and Payroll for May
2014 as submitted.
Resolution 12-14, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund: Approval of Resolution 12-14 as submitted.
Resolution 11-14, Adopt Bond Sale: Approval of Resolution 11-14 as submitted.
Staff Travel: Approval of staff travel as submitted:


2.7

District staff to attend the Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID) 2014 Summer
Institute training in San Diego, California, August 4-6, 2014. Expenses for travel will be paid by
district AVID funds, building budget, and individual personal funds.

Student Trips: Approval of student trips as submitted:







Bellingham High School Cross Country Team to attend the 14th annual team camp at Cornet Bay,
Whidbey Island, Washington, August 25-27, 2014. Expenses will be paid by students and cross
country program fundraising.
Bellingham High School cross country team to attend the Sunfair Invitational Cross Country meet
in Yakima, Washington October 3-4, 2014. Expenses will be paid by students and Cross Country
Club funds.
Sehome High School Girls Swim Team to take their annual training trip to Long Beach,
California, September 5-8, 2014. Expenses for the trip will be paid from fundraising.
Sehome High School Girls Basketball Team to attend the White River High School Summer
Tournament in Buckley, Washington, July 11-12, 2014. Expenses will be paid from
student/family contributions.
Sehome High School Wrestling Team to attend the Friday Harbor Wrestling Camp in Friday
Harbor, Washington, July 22-24, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions.
Sehome High School Track Team to attend the Track/Cross Country Retreat at Orcas IslandMoran State Park, July 27-29, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions.

2

Official Meeting Minutes
June 12, 2014
Page 3 of 7


Sehome High School Football Team to attend the University of Oregon Football Camp in Eugene,
Oregon, June 21-24, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions.
 Sehome High School Dance Team to attend Team Camp in Bellevue, Washington, June 29-July 3,
2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions.
 Sehome High School Dance Team to attend National Cheerleaders Assoc. (NCA) Cheer Camp at
Central Washington University in Ellensburg, Washington, July 28-August 1, 2014. Expenses
will be paid from student/family contributions.
 Sehome High School Boys Basketball Team to attend the Lake Washington Tournament in
Kirkland, Washington, June 21-22, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family
contributions.
 Sehome High School Boys Basketball Team to attend Curtis High School Tournament in Tacoma,
Washington, June 27-28, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions.
 Sehome High School Boys Basketball Team to attend Seattle Christian Tournament in Seattle,
Washington, July 12-13, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions.
The following requests are after-the-fact and were given earlier approval by Dr. Baker:
 Squalicum High School student to attend the International Bridge Building Contest in Chicago,
Illinois, from May 8-10, 2014. All travel expenses are being paid by private donation, through the
Associated Student Body (ASB) office.
 Squalicum High School orchestra students were invited to participate in the 66th Annual Music in
May Festival in Forest Grove, Oregon, May 22-24, 2014. Expenses will be paid from Associated
Student Body (ASB) funds. (late invitation)
 Squalicum High School students to sail the Zodiac in the San Juan Islands, May 16-18,
2014. Expenses will be paid from a combination of Zodiac grant matching funds,
Parent/Teacher/Student Association (PTSA) donations, fundraising, and student/family
contributions.
 Roosevelt Elementary students to attend Mountain School, June 9-11, 2014.
 Sehome High School Girls Basketball Team to attend the Wenatchee High School Summer
Tournament in Wenatchee, Washington, June 7-8, 2014. Expenses will be paid from
student/family contributions.
 Sehome High School Track Team to attend the Battle of the Border for State Champions at
Wilsonville High School, in Wilsonville, Oregon, June 7-8, 2014. Expenses will be paid from
student/family contributions.
 Sehome High School Boys Basketball Team to attend the Union High School Tournament in
Vancouver, Washington, June 13-14, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family
contributions.
 Squalicum High School and Mt. Vernon High School students to attend the International Bridge
Building Contest in Chicago, May 8-10, 2014. Expenses will be paid from Career Technology
Education (CTE) funds, private donation, and ASB funds.

2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15

Approve Inter-Agency Agreement with ESD 112: Approval of agreement as
submitted.
Approval of Surplus Items: Approval of request as submitted.
AVID Implementation Agreement: Approval of agreement as submitted.
FACES Northwest Agreement: Approval of agreement as submitted.
Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services: Approval of
agreement as submitted.
Resolution 13-14, Delegating Authority to Washington Interscholastic Activities
Association (WIAA): Approval of Resolution 13-14 as submitted.
Northwest Educational Service District Agreement: Approval of agreement as
submitted.
Personnel Recommendations: Approval of Personnel Recommendations as submitted.
3

Official Meeting Minutes
June 12, 2014
Page 4 of 7

2.16

Personal Services Contracts (6): Approval of Personal Services Contracts as submitted:
 Coble, Amberjoy – To serve as a sign language interpreter for Mr. Craig Nicholes, Sehome High School
teacher. for the 2014-15 school year.





Coble, Amberjoy – To serve as a sign language interpreter for the public at open houses, parent
conferences, special programs with public attendance (i.e. concerts, plays, D.A.R.E., graduation, etc.) to
comply with Americans with Disabilities Act, as authorized by the principal or program administrator.
2014-15 school year.
Holladay, Pam – Provide tutoring services for private school students on Individual Service Plans
(ISPs) in the Bellingham School District boundaries (2013-14 school year).
Roth, Debbie – Serve as Sign language interpreter on an as-needed basis for open houses, parent
conferences, public attending special programs, etc. (2014-15 school year).

2.17

District Policy Manual Update - Series 1000: Approval of recommendations as
submitted.

3.0
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
GP-10, Board Compensation and Expenses (Third Reading/Adoption)
Following discussion, Ms. Hackler made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to adopt
GP-10 with recommended revisions. Vote was unanimous.

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Following discussion, Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to accept
the monitoring report and to confirm that:
 The Superintendent has reasonably interpreted the provisions of EL-4; and
 There is sufficient evidence to determine whether the District is in compliance or
not; and
 The District is in compliance with the policy’s executive limitations.
Motion carried unanimously. It was agreed to include the following comments in the EL4 summary sheet:
 There seems to be some overlap between EL-4 and EL-6, particularly as it relates
to certificated employees. Is there a way to amend one or both EL's to reduce the
overlap / redundancy in reporting from the district to the board?
 I appreciate that classified staff and paraeducators are being offered professional
development opportunities. I also applaud the decision to purchase new HR
software to help ensure compliance.
 The District goes beyond State funding limits to provide our staff in all categories
with the resources needed to support powerful teaching, from planning time
within each day to Professional Development and collaboration hours each week;
to as needed training programs for targeted topics; to the strong support of a
dedicated and talented Department of Teaching and Learning.
Further, the successful contract negotiations with the teachers’ union indicate
that the District appropriately values, supports and compensates its certified staff.

4

Official Meeting Minutes
June 12, 2014
Page 5 of 7

4.2

5.0
5.1

5.2

6.0

The HR Department also has adequate resources and skills to stay abreast
of complex issues surrounding hiring, evaluating and retaining talented staff of
all categories
It was further agreed that consideration of changes to the policy would be considered at
the June 26 regular meeting.
Board Response to Monitoring, Ends-1, Strategic Mission and Vision
At the April 17, 2014 School Board meeting, the board heard a monitoring report on
Ends-1. On May 8, 2014, the board responded to the monitoring report. At tonight’s
meeting, the board agreed that consideration of whether changes are needed to the actual
policy would be tabled until the June 26, 2014 meeting.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Committee Reports
 Superintendent Review: (Dr. Smith and Dr. Gass): Dr. Smith reported that he and
Dr. Gass have met several times and have completed the Superintendent’s final
draft evaluation. Preliminary drafts have been distributed to the Board. The
Superintendent’s annual review will be conducted during an Executive Session
after the June 26th regular Board meeting.
 County and City Council Liaisons (Ms. Bashaw and Ms. Hackler): Ms. Hackler
reported that she has met with City Council Liaison Roxanne Murphy, and
follow-up meetings are being planned.
Preliminary 2014-15 Budget Presentation
Dr. Baker introduced Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan, Director of Business
Services Kathryn Weilage, and Executive Director of Communications and Community
Relations Tanya Rowe. The team discussed the budget development process and they
shared a Prezi presentation relating to the 2014-15 budget proposal. Formal adoption of
the budget will be an agenda item at the June 26 regular board meeting. Dr. Baker said
this is a very student-centered budget, created in part by focusing on feedback and input
from directors, principals, staff, and the community. Dr. Smith commended the team for
their work and said he appreciated the efforts involved in creating a readable and
understandable preliminary budget report.
NEW BUSINESS
Board Vacancy: Dr. Smith said Dr. Stockburger has resigned his board position for
reasons of health. By law, the Board is required to fill the vacancy within 90 days of
accepting a board member’s resignation and declaring the position vacant.
Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to accept Dr. Stockburger’s
resignation and to declare that the position of Bellingham School District Board Director
position No. 5 is vacant. Motion carried unanimously. The Board will accept applications
for the position through June 30, 2014. They will meet to discuss qualifications of
applicants during executive session on Thursday, July 17, followed by their regular
public meeting at 6 p.m., during which they will select up to five finalists to interview.
During a special session at 6 p.m. Monday, July 28, the board may interview finalists and
5

Official Meeting Minutes
June 12, 2014
Page 6 of 7

make an appointment at that time. The board may change this schedule as needed. An
orientation session for individuals interested in learning more about the work of the
School Board is scheduled for Monday, June 23, at 6 p.m.
Dr. Smith expressed appreciation for the contributions Dr. Stockburger made during his
tenure as a director. He said when The Bellingham Promise was being wordsmithed, Dr.
Stockburger stressed the importance of kids being loved and cared for, and as a result,
that statement became one of the key components of The Promise. Dr. Smith said the
board was extremely grateful for Dr. Stockburger’s insight and for helping to make The
Promise what it is today.
State Boards of Distinction: Dr. Smith said the board would begin work on the
application to be considered as a State Board of Distinction. The first draft of the
application is needed by Dr. Smith for review purposes by July. 10.
Board Manual: Dr. Smith said a goal is to have an initial draft by August 1.

7.
7.1
7.2

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (good).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:58 p.m.

6

Official Meeting Minutes
June 12, 2014
Page 7 of 7

7

