BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 10, 2011
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session March 10, 2011 in the Board
Room of the Administration Building.

OPENING ITEMS
At 7:00 p.m. President Ann Whitmyer called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Ann
Whitmyer, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Steve Smith moved and Scott Stockburger seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of February 24, 2011 School Board Meeting and Linkage.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, investment, February 11, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, February 18, 2011

$145,350.00
($332,400.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, February 11, 2011
WCIP, investment, February 18, 2011

($859,790.00)
$5,655.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, February 11, 2011
WCIP, investment, February 18, 2011

$1,850.00
$10,450.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, February 11, 2011
WCIP, investment, February 18, 2011

($9,140.00)
$48,105.00

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, February 2011
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.

Official School Board Minutes
March 10, 2011
Page 2 of 5

Approval of Surplus Equipment
Action on surplus equipment as submitted.
Gifts and Donations
Action on donations as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Jarid Norman to serve as drill writer for the high school band from August through
November 2010.
b) Joseph Wooding to develop, implement, and monitor the Pacific Northwest History
independent study course for students at Bellingham, Sehome and Squalicum high
schools effective December 1, 2010, through June 30, 2011.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
Student Trips
a) Bellingham High School band to participate in the Starlight Parade in Portland, Oregon,
June 3–5, 2011.
b) Carl Cozier Elementary School 5th grade students to attend the North Cascades Institute’s
Mountain School Ecosystem Explorations Program, September 19–21 and September
22–23, 2011.
c) Squalicum High School choir to participate in the Heritage Music Festival in Vancouver,
British Columbia, May 27–29, 2011.
Approval of Governance Policies
The Board reviewed Governance Process policies at the January 29, 2011 Board retreat.
Governance Process policies GP-1, Governance Commitment and Beliefs; and GP-4.1, Board
Self-Assessment were approved as written. Governance Process policies GP-2, Governing Style;
GP-3, Board Job Description; GP-4, Monitoring Board Governance; GP-8, Board Members’
Code of Conduct; and GP-11, Process for Addressing Board Member Violations were approved
as amended.
Policy and Procedure 2024, Online Learning
Policy and Procedure 2024, Online Learning, was approved as submitted.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Steve Smith attended the State Auditors Exit Interview, had lunch with the Superintendent,
participated in the February 24 Board Linkage on early education and attended the Happy Valley
Elementary School Science Fair. Mr. Smith attended the Northwest Council for Computer
Education, March 3–4, in Portland, Oregon. He particularly enjoyed a session on online learning.
He attended the Superintendent’s community meeting regarding the school start/end times

Official School Board Minutes
March 10, 2011
Page 3 of 5

proposal on March 8 at Shuksan Middle School and attended the bridge building competition at
Bellingham High School.
Scott Stockburger attended the Board’s visit to Shuksan Middle School and was impressed with
their connection with the Latino community.
Kelly Bashaw also attended the Shuksan Middle School visit and commented on their program to
match staff with at-risk students. She also attended the community meetings on school start and
end times. Ms. Bashaw attended the Strengthening Families Program at Shuksan Middle School
and attended the Board’s Linkage Meeting with early childhood leaders.
Ann Whitmyer met with Superintendent Baker on March 3 and attended the State Auditors Exit
Interview. She expressed appreciation to Ron Cowan and the Business Office for the clean audit.
Ms. Whitmyer participated in the February 24 Board/Community Linkage and the Legislative
Conference in Olympia on February 27–28. On March 4, Ms. Whitmyer joined other Board
members at Shuksan Middle School for the monthly Board visit. She commented on how much
energy is in the school and how the school is joining with community partners. She also joined
Dr. Baker at Shuksan Middle School for his presentation on start and end times. On March 10,
she joined other District staff at the Everett Public School Foundation breakfast, along with
representatives from the Bellingham Public School Foundation who were exploring the event as
a possible fundraising model. She is working on scheduling a trip to Anacortes in the near future
with representatives from the Board and District to evaluate the software used for School Board
agendas.
Upcoming dates include:
• WSSDA Regional Meeting: March 22
• New Board Candidate Information Evening: May 10
• Board/Community Linkage: May 12
• Candidate Filing Dates: June 6 –10
• School Board meeting: July 7
• School Board retreat: July 14
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Incoming Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable introduced Laura Hammond, chairperson of the
Friends of Gordon Carter. Ms. Hammond reviewed the history of the Gordon L. Carter
Environmental Education Site and the fundraising efforts to continue the Pioneer Days program
for all 3rd grade students. Ms. Hammond presented the District a check in the amount of $10,115,
representing 50% of the total needed to support the 3rd grade program. The balance will be
presented at a later date.
Superintendent Greg Baker made several announcements:
• Full-time kindergarten just finished its second full week at Title 1 schools. He
encouraged the Board to visit some of the full-time classes.
• Dr. Baker is looking for a date (possibly April 14) to schedule a Board work session on
secondary online learning.

Official School Board Minutes
March 10, 2011
Page 4 of 5

•
•

•
•

•

He plans to move forward with exploring a homeschool partnership.
The District is finalizing a partnership with Northwest Career & Technical Academy in
Mount Vernon. Their programs will provide our juniors and seniors with high school,
college and certification approval in a variety of careers, including culinary arts, dental
technology, marine technology, veterinary medical, etc.
With the proposed new start and end times, Dr. Baker is encouraging high schools to be
creative about adding a 7th period to allow flexibility for some students to start school
later and end later.
Superintendent Baker thanked Tanya Rowe, director of Communications and Community
Relations, and her staff for developing the video to explain the complexity of the start and
end times. He also met with principals from all levels and representatives from each
school to review and respond to questions about the proposed start and end times. The
Superintendent also held two evening meetings to explain this process to the community
and respond to their questions.
Dr. Baker explained his proposal for the core elementary program and students’ time with
specialists that includes time for health/fitness, library/technology, music and some
additional flexible staffing for each elementary school. While he would like the schedule
to also include time for counseling and world language, he acknowledged it was still a
work in progress.

Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma introduced Brian Rick, Assessment and Evaluation
specialist. Mr. Rick highlighted the State Accountability Index. As he explained, the state
recognized that a new system was needed. Mr. Rick reviewed the student data, which is scored in
five outcomes: reading, writing, math, science and extended graduation rate. There are four
indicators for each outcome–non-low income, low income, peers and improvement.
Audience
Gene Myers, Huxley College faculty member, explained how Western Washington University
and Friends of Gordon Carter have been working together to develop a new program for ecology
studies for the 6th grade students at Geneva Elementary School. He expressed appreciation to
John Heritage, Jim Facciano, Ron Cowan and Jeff Coulter for their support.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Community/Board Linkage
The Board reviewed the Community/Board Linkage held February 24, 2011 on Early Childhood
Learning and discussed comments and observations made during the session. The Directors were
impressed by the caliber of guests that attended the Linkage, their focus on early learning and the
comments and suggestions that were made. Among the comments the Board members heard
included:
• Placing a high value on preschool is a way to improve achievement and raise the on-time
graduation rate.
• There are a lot of community resources available; the District just needs to know what
they are in order to help families.
• Establish links with community agencies to support early learning in schools.

Official School Board Minutes
March 10, 2011
Page 5 of 5

•
•
•

Use community agencies to support a “Parent Academy.”
Learning is a life-long process, beginning at birth.
The Board discussed modifying value statements to include life and learning skills for
early childhood.

Board/Superintendent Relationship Policies
The Board reviewed and discussed the following Board/Superintendent Relationship (B/SR)
policies:
B/SR- 1, Board/Superintendent Connection
B/SR-2, The Board Acts as a Unit
B/SR-3, Accountability of the Superintendent
B/SR-4, Delegation to the Superintendent
B/SR-5, Monitoring Superintendent Performance
B/SR-5.1, Annual Summative Evaluation of the Superintendent
B/SR-5.1.1, Monitoring Response Document (Ends)
B/SR-5.1.2, Monitoring Response Document (Means)
Steve Smith moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the motion to approve the B/SR policies as
follows:
B/SR-1, Board/Superintendent Connection, approved with no changes recommended.
B/SR-2, The Board Acts as a Unit, approved with no changes recommended.
B/SR-3, Accountability of the Superintendent, approved with no changes recommended.
B/SR-4, Delegation to the Superintendent, approved with no changes recommended.
B/SR-5, Monitoring Superintendent Performance, approved with the following change:
Paragraph 3–In every case, the standard for compliance shall be whether the
Superintendent has reasonably interpreted the Board policy being monitored. The Board
will make the final decision as to whether a Superintendent interpretation is reasonable,
and will provide to the Superintendent, by the next meeting, a monitoring response
document (B/SR-5.1.1 or B/SR-5.1.2). The President will gather individual board
member input and will draft a board response document for consideration/approval at the
next meeting.
B/SR-5.1, Annual Summative Evaluation of the Superintendent, approved with no changes
recommended.
B/SR-5.1.1, Monitoring Response Document (Ends), approved with replacing the form.
B/SR-5.1.2, Monitoring Response Document (Means), approved with replacing the form.
The motion carried unanimously.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Scott Stockburger assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was commendable.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 9:00 p.m.

