BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
AND
BUDGET STUDY SESSION
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 7, 2011
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session and study session July 7, 2011
in the Board Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.

OPENING ITEMS
At 6:00 p.m. President Ann Whitmyer called the regular meeting and study session to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Ann
Whitmyer, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
Study Session
At 6:00 p.m. the Board met in a study session to review the District preliminary budget for
2011–12. Superintendent Greg Baker shared an overview of the proposed 2011–12 budget with
the Board. As presented, the budget is student-centered and was developed through Dr. Baker’s
year of listening and learning. He felt the proposed budget reflects the community’s values and
support in times of declining state and federal funding. Dr. Baker reviewed recent budget history
and how legislative decisions have impacted the District. As proposed, the budget reflects a
focus on early childhood, increased support for teaching and learning, secondary innovation with
flexibility and, under the “One Schoolhouse” concept, differentiated support to schools. As Dr.
Baker pointed out, the proposed budget leaves many student needs not funded. The District will
also continue to work with labor groups and non-represented staff on compensation.
Assistant Superintendent of Business and Operations Ron Cowan, Business Manager Brett
Greenwood and Accounting Supervisor Kathryn Weilage reviewed budget details and responded
to questions from the Board. According to Assistant Superintendent Cowan, the District is
projecting an enrollment increase of 107 students. Revenue is projected to increase $1.4 million
and expenditures will increase $2.3 million. The fund balance at the end of the 2011–12 fiscal
year is projected to be approximately 4.3%, still within the Board-mandated range of 3% to 5%
of budgeted general fund expenditures.
Mr. Cowan responded to questions from Board.

School Board Minutes
July 7, 2011
Page 2 of 4

President Whitmyer expressed appreciation to Dr. Baker, Mr. Cowan and the accounting staff for
their work on the budget.
The Study Session ended at 7:15 p.m. and regular meeting was called to order by President Ann
Whitmyer.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw moved and Scott Stockburger seconded approval of the consent agenda. The
motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of June 23, 2011 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
Approval of Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations, as submitted.
Approval of Bid Awards
a) Bid for yearbooks for Bellingham, Sehome and Squalicum high Schools awarded to the
lowest bidder, Herff Jones Yearbooks, in the amount of $24,750.
b) Bid for dairy products awarded to the lowest bidder, Dairy Distributing, in the amount of
$221,888 (estimated annual amount based on usage).
Approval of Purchase and Sale Agreement
Action on Purchase and Sale Agreement for a 17-acre parcel of land for a potential future school
site in the north end of the district.
Out-of-State Travel
Action on the following out-of-state travel:
a) A Maintenance Equipment Repair Specialist in the Maintenance Department to attend the
Windsor Equipment Certified Repair Training Program in Denver, Colorado, September
18–23, 2011.
Student Trips
Action on the following student trips:
a) Bellingham High School Boys’ Wrestling Team to attend the Intensive Wrestling Camp
in Nine Mile Falls, Washington, July 10–16, 2011 and participate in the Pasco High
School Wrestling Tournament in Pasco, Washington, July 18–20, 2011. (Revised
Request)
b) Fairhaven Middle School ASB students and officers to attend the CISPUS Leadership
Camp in Randle, Washington, August 5–8, 2011.

School Board Minutes
July 7, 2011
Page 3 of 4
c) Sehome High School Cross Country Team to attend the New Balance Festival of
Champions in Monmouth, Oregon, September 16–17, 2011.
d) Sehome High School Yearbook and Newspaper Staff to attend the Washington
Journalism Education Association Summer Student Workshop at Central Washington
University in Ellensburg, Washington, August 7–10, 2011.
e) Sehome High School Girls’ Swim Team to attend the annual training in Victoria, British
Columbia, August 24–26, 2011.
f) Squalicum High School will send three music students to the Drum Major Camp at Lewis
and Clark College in Portland, Oregon, July 17–20, 2011.
g) Squalicum High School will send five leadership students to the CISPUS Leadership
Camp in Mount Olympus, Washington, July 12–17, 2011.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Katherine Ripley to serve as a Spanish interpreter from July 8–August 30, 2011.
b) Frederick Collins to tutor students who participated in the I.A.M. (Inspiring a Movement)
program at Bellingham High School during the 2010–11 school year.
Personnel Recommendations
Approval of personnel as submitted.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Director Ken Gass participated in a luncheon meeting with President Whitmyer and Dr. Baker.
Scott Stockburger expressed appreciation for the work on the district budget and that the district
was not only prepared for the budget cuts but still able to implement several new programs. He
thanked Dr. Baker and staff for their vision.
Ann Whitmyer and Dr. Gass met with Camille Hackler, who is running unopposed for the
School Board. They shared with her information about the Board. President Whitmyer also met
with Dr. Baker to plan the agenda for the Board retreat, scheduled for July 14 from 6 to 9 p.m.
She will send a draft agenda to the Board.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Baker reported that Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable and his wife Ann announced the
birth of a son, Elliot Adams, born July 6.
On July 11 and 12, Dr. Baker and Tanya Rowe will be presenting his Entry Plan at the National
School Public Relations Association (NSPRA) Annual Conference in San Antonio, Texas.
Audience
No audience presented.

School Board Minutes
July 7, 2011
Page 4 of 4
BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Policy Governance EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
Dr. Gass commented that the information presented consisted of assurances instead of specific
data, which is preferred.
Policy Governance EL-18, Mandatory Policies
Dr. Gass requested identifying the administrator responsible for each series of administrative
policies and procedures.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Ken Gass assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was commendable.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:35 p.m.

