BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 10, 2011
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session February 10, 2011 in the
Board Room of the Administration Building.
OPENING ITEMS
At 7:00 p.m. President Ann Whitmyer called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Ann
Whitmyer, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion carried
unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of the January 27, 2011 Regular School Board Meeting.
Action on the minutes of the January 29, 2011 Special School Board Meeting.
Action on the minutes of the February 3, 2011 Special School Board Meeting.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Shuhsin Ko to provide services as a Taiwanese interpreter (in addition to Chinese
Mandarin, previously approved) from February through August 2011.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, January 31, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, February 4, 2011

($225,200.00)
($165,200.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, January 31, 2011
WCIP, investment, February 4, 2011

($2,321,240.00)
$2,000.00

School Board Minutes
February 10, 2011
Page 2 of 5

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, January 31, 2011
WCIP, investment, February 4, 2011

$5,180.00
$10,800.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, January 31, 2011
WCIP, investment, February 4, 2011

($9,185.00)
$9,576.00

TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, January 31, 2011
($107,600.00)

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Contracts
a) Interdistrict Agreement between Mount Baker School District and the Bellingham School
District for the 2010–11 school year for Bellingham to provide an educational program
for a specific student not available in the resident district.
Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.
Surplus Equipment
Action on surplus as submitted.
Out-of-State Travel
a) Birchwood Elementary School Support Staff to attend a certification training for the
program “Character Counts” in Los Angeles, California, March 9–11, 2011.
b) A School Board Director to attend the Northwest Council for Computer Education
(NCCE) in Portland, Oregon, March 3–4, 2011.
Student Trips
a) The Bridge Building Teams from Sehome, Squalicum and Bellingham high schools to
attend the International Bridge Building contest in Chicago, Illinois, April 28–May 1,
2011. The top two students who qualify at the regional contest in Bellingham in March
will go to the international contest in Chicago.
b) Sehome High School DECA Club to attend the State Career and Development
Conference in Bellevue, Washington, March 3–5, 2011.
c) Sehome High School FIRST Robotics team to compete in a second Robotics competition
in Seattle, Washington, March 16–19, 2011.
d) Sehome High School Orchestra to travel to the Oregon Coast, June 2–5, 2011 for their
annual spring tour.
e) Shuksan Middle School 7th and 8th grade students to participate in a science field trip
aboard the sailing vessel, Carlyn, April 24–27, 2011.
f) Squalicum High School students to participate in the North Cascades Mountain School,
May 18–20, 2011.

School Board Minutes
February 10, 2011
Page 3 of 5

Personnel Recommendations
Approval of personnel recommendations as submitted.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
All Board members participated in the Board retreat on January 29, 2011, which included a tour
of Cordata Elementary School. The Board also visited Lowell Elementary School on February 4
as part of their routine monthly visit to schools.
Steve Smith will be attending and presenting, along with Michael Jay, at the Northwest Council
for Computer Education (NCCE) in Portland, Oregon, March 3–4, 2011. The conference focused
on how computers can be used to support classroom learnings.
Ken Gass attended the special School Board meeting on February 3 at which time, the Board
approved awarding the bid to complete Whatcom Middle School to Dawson Construction. Dr.
Gass also attended the meeting held for Whatcom Middle School families and staff to announce
that Whatcom Middle School will open for students for the 2011–12 school year.
Scott Stockburger expressed appreciation to staff and contractors for working to open Whatcom
Middle School a year ahead of schedule. He is also excited, both as a parent and as a Board
member, for the revamping of the high school science curriculum. Dr. Stockburger also attended
the special School Board on February 3.
Kelly Bashaw enjoyed the visit to Lowell Elementary School and seeing the progress on Cordata
Elementary School. She also attended the meeting for Whatcom Middle School staff and families
on February 8, 2011.
Ann Whitmyer was impressed with the beautiful setting for Cordata Elementary School. The
school is surrounded by grassy fields, beautiful wetlands and has a full-sized gym. Ms.
Whitmyer announced the regular School Board meeting on February 24 will be held at 6:30 p.m.
at Northern Heights Elementary School. At this meeting, the Board will hold their second
community/staff linkage. Whitmyer noted the comments made by Principal Ferguson on the
move-in process for Lowell Elementary School should help when Birchwood Elementary School
reopens. Ms. Whitmyer also complimented the Whatcom Middle School art currently on display
at the Central Services building in which the students used the correct botanical names for the
plants. Lastly, Ms. Whitmyer is continuing to explore alternative software that will support the
Board’s work under Policy Governance.
Legislative Report
Steve Smith gave a report on how state funding could impact the district. He also reviewed some
money savings ideas and suggestions the state is considering.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Greg Baker updated the Board on the budget. Based on state funding, he anticipates class sizes
would increase by 5 to 6 students. By using funds from the supplemental levy, Dr. Baker hopes

School Board Minutes
February 10, 2011
Page 4 of 5

district class sizes would increase by a smaller amount. Baker has been meeting with staff and
reviewing results from a community survey on daily full-day kindergarten and plans to make a
decision in the next week. In the meantime, all Title 1 schools will begin daily full-day
kindergarten on March 1. Dr. Baker understands some families have concerns about the longer
school day for kindergarten students but feels these concerns can be addressed. Other areas that
Dr. Baker has focused his attention include online learning at the secondary level, establishing a
program for home schooled families, and he is continuing to work on school start and end times.
Baker met with the Student Advisory Committee this week at Options High School. A team from
the high schools will travel to Mount Vernon on Friday, February 11 to visit the Skill Center.
Superintendent Baker reported the high schools are trying different innovative methods to
support struggling students.
On January 31 and February 1, administrators and their secretaries participated in Breakthrough
Coach Training. This training teaches administrators how to be more effective in their work
while still enjoying balance in their lives. The secretary plays a key role in supporting the
administrator by scheduling coaching days and minimizing distractions.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Approval of Executive Limitation Report, EL-11, Communication and Counsel to the Board
Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded the motion to approve the monitoring report on
Executive Limitation Report, EL-11, Communication and Counsel to the Board, with the
following recommendation for the next EL-11 Monitoring Report. Regarding item 12 “The
Superintendent may not fail to supply for the consent agenda all items delegated to the
Superintendent that are required by law or contract to be Board-approved, along with supporting
data necessary to keep the Board informed.” The Board requested the Superintendent provide
supporting evidence with the next Monitoring Report, including a list of state requirements with
corresponding dates when these requirements were submitted to the Board for approval.
Approval of Executive Limitation Report, EL-12, Communication with the Public
Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded the motion to approve the monitoring report on
Executive Limitation Report, EL-12, Communication with the Public, as presented at the January
27, 2011 School Board meeting. The Board suggested future monitoring reports include a list of
various publications and the intended public.

BOARD POLICY REVIEW
Executive Limitation Report, EL-11, Communication and Counsel to the Board
Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded the motion to modify the wording of EL-11,
Communication and Counsel to the Board, as follows:
1. Delete item no. 6: “the Superintendent may not fail to ensure that newly hired key
administrators participate in an entrance briefing, and provide an opportunity for
departing key administrators to participate in an exit briefing, with the Board.”
2. Reorder list.
Executive Limitation Report, EL-12, Communication with the Public

School Board Minutes
February 10, 2011
Page 5 of 5

Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded the motion to modify wording of EL-12,
Communication with the Public, as follows:
1. Several formatting changes were recommended.
2. Replacing Your Bellingham Schools with District newsletter.
3. Clarifying word changes, as submitted.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Kelly Bashaw assessed the meeting. Her overall assessment was good.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:15 p.m.

