BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
January 13, 2011
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session January 13, 2011 in the Board
Room of the Administration Building.

OPENING ITEMS
At 7:00 p.m. President Ann Whitmyer called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Ann
Whitmyer, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
Approval of Agenda
Whitmyer removed the consent item Procedure 1001P, Reaffirmation of Board Operating
Principles, from the agenda, explaining that the Board has adopted Policy Governance. Included
in Policy Governance is GP-8, Board Members’ Code of Conduct, which will be reviewed by the
Board in January and will replace Procedure 1001P. The Board concurred and there were no
other additions or deletions to the agenda.

PUBLIC HEARING
Public Hearing to Amend Resolution 9-05
President Ann Whitmyer opened the public hearing portion of the meeting as required by law.
Superintendent Greg Baker reviewed the proposed amendment to Resolution 9-05, which was
approved by the Board on November 10, 2005. Superintendent Baker used a public process to
gather input in December 2010 on a Facilities Springboard proposal that included repurposing
some bond funds for rebuilding Birchwood Elementary School instead of making seismic
improvements to the district office. He shared the feedback received and announced plans to
move forward on Dec. 16 in a Message to the Community. Holding a public hearing is a legal
requirement in order to use the voter-approved funds for a different purpose. President Whitmyer
asked if anyone was present to address the issue of the proposed amendment to Resolution 9-05,
which authorizes the use of 2006 Bond proceeds, including related investment earnings, for the
remodel/rebuild of Birchwood Elementary School.

School Board Minutes
January 13, 2011
Page 2 of 6

Carolyn Hinshaw addressed the Board on behalf of the Birchwood Elementary School staff. She
commented that she has been a teacher in Birchwood for 24 years and it is a tired, old building
that still serves as the community center of the Birchwood neighborhood. The Birchwood staff is
very much in support of this amendment and they are looking forward to building a school
environment at Cordata before moving back to reopen Birchwood.
Robin Baker is a parent of a Birchwood Elementary School student and PTA president. She
thanked Dr. Baker for suggesting this idea and obtaining community feedback. She supports this
amendment as it allows the Birchwood community to stay together through the rebuilding
process.
Cathy Vyvyan is also a Birchwood parent and she expressed her thanks for considering this.
Carissa Conour, a Birchwood parent is excited about this proposal but remains cautious about
whether Birchwood will be rebuilt and reopened in an appropriate timeline. She also expressed
concern about what would happen to property values if the school did not reopen. The
community takes an active role in Birchwood and it is the center of their neighborhood.
There were no other speakers and President Whitymer closed the public hearing portion of the
meeting, and indicated the Board would vote on the amendment later in the meeting.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw moved and Ken Gass seconded approval of the consent agenda with a correction
to the minutes of the December 9, 2010 School Board meeting. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of December 9, 2010 School Board Meeting, as corrected.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, investment, December 10, 2010
WCIP, investment, December 17, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, December 22, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, January 7, 2011

$509,800.00
$1,500.00
($118,000.00)
($260,500.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, investment, December 10, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, December 17, 2010
WCIP, investment, January 7, 2011

$946,464.00
($353,815.00)
$6,200.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, December 10, 2010
WCIP, investment, December 17, 2010
WCIP, investment, December 22, 2010
WCIP, investment, January 7, 2011

$258,030.00
$7,000.00
$1,300.00
$18,375.00

School Board Minutes
January 13, 2011
Page 3 of 6
ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, December 10, 201
WCIP, investment, December 17, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, December 22, 2010
WCIP, investment, January 7, 2011

($16,885.00)
$52,465.00
($70,665.00)
$26,550.00

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee for
November and December, 2010.
Contracts
a) Indistrict Agreement with Ferndale School District for Bellingham School District to
provide services to one student from Ferndale School District.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Mai-Sen Change, Shuhsin Ko, and Christie Q. Tran to serve as foreign language
interpreters for the remainder of the 2010–11 school year.
b) Joyce Jones to serve as a Home/Hospital Tutor for the 2010–11 school year.
c) Jan Resick to facilitate Science through Research Projects in connection with the Highly
Capable Learners’ Program for elementary students.
Student Trips
a) Qualified 8th grade students to participate in the annual Middle School California Science
Trip to San Francisco, California, May 25–28, 2011.
Out-of-State Travel
a) School Administration staff to attend the National Principals Mentor K-12 Training in
Mesa, Arizona, January 27–29, 2011.
b) Two Northern Heights Elementary teachers to attend the International Baccalaureate–
PYP Level 2 and 3 Training in Los Angeles, California, January 21–24, 2011.
c) Ten pre-school staff to attend the International High Scope Conference in Ypsilanti,
Michigan, May 2–6, 2011 (revised request).
d) Eight master science teachers in the North Cascades and Olympic Science Partnership to
attend and present at the National Science Teachers Association annual meeting in San
Francisco, California, March 10–11.
e) Two staff members from the Categorical Programs and Support Services to attend the
Sheltered Instruction Observation Protocol training in Las Vegas, Nevada, February 4–6,
2011.
Call for Bids
Request to call for bids to create and enhance wetlands at an off-site location on Northwest Road
as required to mitigate the impact of construction of Cordata Elementary School.
Award of Bids
Request to award the following bids for Whatcom Middle School.

School Board Minutes
January 13, 2011
Page 4 of 6

a) Award the bid associated with electrical switchgear, panelboards and transformers to
VECA Electric and Technologies in the amount of $90,132.
b) Award the bid associated with the emergency generator to VECA Electric and
Technologies in the amount of $48,000.
c) Award bid for hydraulic elevator to ThyssenKrupp Elevator in the amount of $83,110.
d) Award the bid for hollow metal doors and frames to Dawson Construction, Inc. in the
amount of $88,000.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
Affiliation Agreements
Action on affiliation agreements as submitted:
a) Agreement for Bellingham School District to be a training site for Washington State
University students in the student intern program.
b) Agreement for placement of Eastern Washington University in the Bellingham School
District for educational experiences in physical therapy, communication disorders and
occupational therapy.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Ken Gass attended the January 6 Friends of Gordon Carter benefit concert and auction. He also
participated in a teleconference by the Urban-Suburban Schools Issues Task Force of WSSDA
on the “Browning of America” concerning the transient populations of our schools.
Kelly Bashaw also attended the Cody Rivers benefit concert and auction for the Friends of
Gordon Carter.
Ann Whitmyer reported on her attempt to arrange a meeting with the legislators from the 40th
and 42nd legislative districts. Because there are several new legislators who were required to
report to Olympia early, there was no available time. The Board will have time with legislators
during the WASA/WSSDA Legislative Conference in February. Whitmyer will also try to
arrange a video conference at a later time. She has also been following Governor Gregoire’s
ideas for ensuring Washington students receive a quality education from early learning to career
by announcing her intention to create a single, cabinet-level Department of Education that will
unite the state’s multiple education agencies. Whitmyer had a working breakfast with
Superintendent Baker and Steve Smith.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Greg Baker reported staff is working on the District budget process and noted
each Board member has received a copy of the District Annual Report. Baker has continued to
meet with different groups on a regular basis as identified in his Entry Plan. He acknowledged
the Entry Plan is not complete but the first stage is coming to an end. He completed his goal of
spending nearly a full day at each school by the winter break and one highlight was playing his
saxophone with the Sehome High School jazz band. He has attended several athletic events, met

School Board Minutes
January 13, 2011
Page 5 of 6

with music teachers, visited Home Port and SeaMar Visions, met with representatives from City
University and with President Shepherd, Western Washington University. Baker has met with
representatives from Animals as Natural Therapy and an executive from a Seattle Latino radio
station along.
Superintendent Baker announced the Personnel Recommendations include a change in
administrators. Baker has named Tom Venable, principal at Carl Cozier Elementary School, as
incoming Deputy Superintendent.
Shining Star Awards
Shining Star Awards are presented by the School Board at each meeting to recognize outstanding
accomplishments of students, staff, schools and departments.
In view of January being School Board Recognition Month, Dr. Baker and the district recognized
the School Board with certificates and a PowerPoint of School Board members over the past few
years. As volunteers, Bellingham School Board members serve without pay. They set general
school district policy, select and evaluate the Superintendent, employ personnel upon his
recommendations, and adopt and revise the annual operating budget. They are responsible for
informing the public of the needs and progress of the educational system. Dr. Baker expressed
his appreciation to the Board for their hard work on behalf of the children of the district.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Approval of Executive Limitation Report, EL-8, Budget Execution
Ken Gass moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve the monitoring report on
policy EL-8, Budget Execution, as being in compliance. The motion carried unanimously.

BOARD POLICY REVIEW
Executive Limitation Report, EL-8, Budget Execution
Scott Stockburger moved and Steve Smith seconded the motion to modify wording of EL-8,
Budget Execution, as follows:
9. Allow commercial entities to advertise or imply the endorsement of any
product without Board administrative approval.
The motion carried unanimously.

ACTION ITEMS
Approval of Resolution 1-11, Amending Resolution 9-05
President Ann Whitmyer commented that this item is being presented for the Board’s
consideration following the public hearing earlier in the meeting. The district has received
significant public input in a variety of ways, almost all of which was supportive. President
Whitmyer asked for a motion. Ken Gass moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded approval of
Resolution 1-11, Amending Resolution 9-05, which authorizes the use of 2006 Bond proceeds,
including related investment earnings, for the remodel/rebuild of Birchwood Elementary School.
The motion carried unanimously.

School Board Minutes
January 13, 2011
Page 6 of 6

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Steve Smith assessed the meeting. His overall assessment of the meeting was good.
Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.

