BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 26, 2011
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session May 26, 2011 in the Board
Room of the Administration Building.

OPENING ITEMS
At 7:00 p.m. President Ann Whitmyer called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Ann
Whitmyer, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Steve Smith moved and Scott Stockburger seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of May 12, 2011 School Board Meeting and Community Linkage:
Connecting With Our Latino Families.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.

xxx

GENERAL FUND
WCIP, investment, April 29, 2011
WCIP, investment, May 5, 2011
WCIP, investment, May 13, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, May 20, 2011

$1,629,800.00
$2,680,150.00
$1,202,900.00
($385,050.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, April 29, 2011
WCIP, investment, May 5, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, May 13, 2011
WCIP, investment, May 20, 2011

($2,194,315.00)
$236,850.00
($3,406,080.00)
$4,996,240.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, April 29, 2011
WCIP, investment, May 5, 2011

$1,347,950.00
$1,226,130.00

School Board Minutes
May 26, 2011
Page 2 of 6
WCIP, investment, May13, 2011
WCIP, investment, May 20, 2011

$476,300.00
$22,700.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, April 29, 2011
WCIP, investment, May 5, 2011
WCIP, investment, May 13, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, May 20, 2011

($52,625.00)
$12,310.00
$46,455.00
($58,645.00)

TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, May 5, 2011

($264,100.00)

Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.
Call for Bids
a) Call for bids for high school yearbooks for the 2011–12 school year.
b) Call for bids for dairy products to be used in all schools for the 2011–12 school year.
Out-of-State Travel
a) Squalicum High School Library Media Specialist to attend the International Society for
Technology in Education (ISTE) Conference in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, June 26–29,
2011.
Student Trips
a) Alderwood Elementary School 5th grade students to attend the North Cascades Institute’s
Mountain School 5th Grade Ecosystem Explorations Program, June 1–3, 2011.
Policy 6250, Cellular Telephones
Action on revisions to Policy 6250, Cellular Telephones, as submitted.
Resolution 4–11, Shuksan Middle School Reconstruction Building Commissioning
Action on approval of Resolution 4–11, Shuksan Middle School Reconstruction Building
Commissioning.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Nancy Barga to serve as Summer School Principal for the Online Learning Academy
High School Credit Retrieval Program.
b) Maria Griggs to serve as Summer School Principal for the Title I Elementary and Special
Education Extended School Year (ESY) Programs.
Personnel Recommendations
Approval of personnel as submitted.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports

School Board Minutes
May 26, 2011
Page 3 of 6

Director Steve Smith attended the District Retirement Dinner which recognizes retiring District
staff. He also participated in the Board/Community Linkage with the Latino community and
joined other Board members for a Board candidate orientation meeting. He visited Parkview
Elementary School during the last Board visitation and acknowledged how well the school has
adopted the Response to Intervention (RtI) model.
Dr. Ken Gass also attended the Retirement Dinner. He has visited all of his adopted schools—
Columbia and Sunnyland elementary schools, Fairhaven Middle School, Options High School
and Central Services. He was impressed with the before and after school programs at Columbia
Elementary School, the Art Intersession at Options High School, and the world language
enrichment program. He also met with Dr. Baker and President Whitmyer to discuss the
upcoming Board agenda and met with individuals interested in running for the School Board.
Scott Stockburger visited Parkview Elementary School and participated in the candidate
orientation evening. Dr. Stockburger volunteered at the Gordon Carter Environment Site for the
3rd grade Pioneer Day and pulled weeds at Larrabee Elementary School. He commented he has
heard very positive response from the community about the process the District used in soliciting
input from the community on qualities for new elementary principals. He expressed appreciation
to Dr. Baker and staff for the transparency in communication.
Director Kelly Bashaw attended the Retirement Dinner and had a working lunch with Dr. Baker
and Ann Whitmyer. She participated in the linkage with the Latino community and thanked the
District for putting this linkage together. The linkage notes will be translated and added to the
District website.
Ann Whitmyer attended the Retirement Dinner and the Board visitation at Parkview Elementary
School. She complimented the school for the progress they are making with the RtI model. Ms.
Whitmyer visited two of her adopted schools and attended the orientation meeting for possible
Board candidates. She participated in the Culminating Project at Sehome High School, noting
that this is the first year the seniors have not had the benefit of a supporting class. She felt the
quality of the presentations has improved over the years and the connection with the community
is better. President Whitmyer joined other Board members for a working lunch. She visited
Roosevelt Elementary School for their Festival of the Arts and attended a multi-cultural event at
WWU.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Greg Baker introduced Mark Dalton, manager of the Food Service Department,
who summarized the department’s operation. The Department operates in 23 locations and
served 1,112,523 meals in the 2009–10 school year. Mr. Dalton works with the Farm to School
Advisory Group to improve school meals and increase nutritional education. The Advisory
Group has suggested many good ideas and worked to receive grants to support their efforts.
Their priorities include healthy, fresh, local and sustainable food for students. The challenge is
how to balance cost with labor.
The Board heard from Laura Plaut, Common Threads Farm, who shared information from the
Bellingham School Garden Committee. Through a variety of grants and moral support from

School Board Minutes
May 26, 2011
Page 4 of 6

schools and the District, nine schools currently have gardens with four more anticipated. They
work to tie the gardens to the curriculum. This work helps students see how abstract concepts
become concrete concepts. Gardens also teach students community support and environmental
education. At this time, the gardens offer minimal support to the school lunch program, with
more support anticipated in the future.
Superintendent Baker gave a budget update based on recent information from the state. One of
the largest cuts to K-12 education is a 1.9 percent salary reduction for certificated and
classified/non-exempt staff, and 3 percent for administrative staff. The cut represents $179
million statewide. For our district, this represents approximately $755,000 less in state funding
for staff compensation. Dr. Baker indicated it will take time to work through the implications of
these legislative decisions. He plans to meet with the labor association leaders and work closely
with staff groups. He emphasized that in spite of two years of severe budget cuts, the District
remains in a fairly strong position, due to the passage of the supplemental levy.
Dr. Baker announced the District has hired five new elementary principals—Micah Smith,
Cordata Elementary School; Matt Whitten, Geneva Elementary School; Nicole Tally, Silver
Beach Elementary School; Thomas Gresham, Columbia Elementary School; and Kate Baehr,
Larrabee Elementary School. Interviews for high school principal will be held the week of May
31 and middle school principal the week of June 6.
Dr. Baker summarized the work of the Bellingham Public School Foundation. Gennie Clawson
is the new Executive Director and is working to move the Foundation to the next level. She has
been working with others districts who have a strong foundation.
Audience
Claire Campbell and Henry Spilker both spoke in support of the Harvest of the Month meal
program.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Community/Board Linkage
The Board reviewed the Community/Board Linkage held May 12, 2011 at Shuksan Middle
School on “Connecting With Our Latino Families” and discussed comments and observations
made during the session.
Key comments included how are we addressing the increased diversity in our district to ensure
equity in education. There is a need for professional development training at all levels.
Communicating in native languages and understanding other cultures is important. The Board
also stressed the need for more administrators and staff who speak Spanish and understand
Spanish culture. However, District staff expressed the difficulty of finding individuals who are
bi-lingual. The Board discussed the need to improve cultural competency and to add cultural
awareness training.
Families also had concerns about gang influence. Dr. Baker indicated this is a joint issue that is a
focus of both the District and Police Department.

School Board Minutes
May 26, 2011
Page 5 of 6

The Board discussed ways to continue communications with the various groups they have met
with through linkages.
Policy Governance Ends E-3, Life and Learning Skills
Policy Governance Ends E-4, Personal Attributes and Ethics
The Board reviewed and discussed what Ends E-3, Life and Learning Skills, and E-4, Personal
Attributes and Ethics mean and how they could be monitored and how to measure skills to show
progress. Dr. Baker shared suggestions from staff on how to show evidence of improvement. The
Board made additional suggestions. There was discussion about rewriting the Ends to be more
measurable and to better align with District values and community goals.
Monitoring Report EL-5, Staff Compensation
Human Resources Executive Director Nora Klewiada presented the Monitoring Report EL-5,
Staff Compensation, which states in broad terms that the Superintendent may not:
• Change his or her own compensation and benefits, as evidenced by the annual contract
and district records;
• Deviate from established fiscal accounting procedures and fiscal checks and balances
applicable to all other district employees;
• Promise or imply guaranteed employment;
• Recommend for board approval salary schedules that represent noncompetitive
compensation (in the geographical and professional market) for all employees.
Assistant Superintendent of Business and Operations Ron Cowan reported on the process used
by the District to ensure financial checks and balances. Ms. Klewiada also shared that a process
is underway to collect data from other school districts for the various components of salaries and
benefits.
The Board will respond to this monitoring report at the June 9, 2011 Board meeting.
Monitoring Report EL-14, Academic Program
Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma and Jim Facciano, Director of Curriculum and
Instructional Technology and Libraries, presented the Monitoring Report EL-14, Academic
Program, which states in broad terms that the Superintendent shall not fail to adopt and develop
an academic program for the district to enable students to meet content standards and to achieve
the Board’s Ends policies.
This report included a wide spectrum of information and could have included much more.
Members of the Board emphasized that the data they request should also be helpful to the
district. All acknowledged that this first year of monitoring reports will serve as a benchmark for
future reports. The Board asked for data showing improvement in equitable access to all classes,
information about students in the “middle,” and before and after detracking data. They also
wanted to ensure that we are adapting our materials to the needs of all students.
The Board will respond to this monitoring report at the June 9, 2011 Board meeting.

School Board Minutes
May 26, 2011
Page 6 of 6

Monitoring Report EL-15, Instructional Materials Selection
Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma and Jim Facciano, Director of Curriculum and
Instructional Technology and Libraries, presented the Monitoring Report EL-15, Instructional
Materials Selection, which states in broad terms that the Superintendent shall not fail to
recommend to the Board for approval the instructional materials and textbooks to be used in the
district.
The Board will respond to this monitoring report at the June 9, 2011 Board meeting.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Steve Smith moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve the monitoring report on
Executive Limitation Report, EL-16, Calendar, as presented at the March 24, 2011 School Board
meeting.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Kelly Bashaw assessed the meeting. Her overall assessment was good.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 10 p.m.

