BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
April 14, 2011
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session April 14, 2011 in the Board
Room of the Administration Building.

OPENING ITEMS
At 5:40 p.m. President Ann Whitmyer called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Ann
Whitmyer, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.

STUDY SESSION
As part of Dr. Baker’s Entry Plan, there has been interest in expanding online learning
opportunities beyond the partnership that we have had with Spokane Virtual Learning for our
summer school program during the last two years. At 5:40 p.m., representatives from Spokane
Virtual Learning, Kristin Whiteaker, Director of Spokane Virtual Learning and Instructional
Technology, and Don Brummett, Manager, Virtual Learning Programs and Technologies, met
with the Board of Directors and other District staff to discuss and share information about their
online learning program.
Ms. Whiteaker made the following points:
• Online learning closes the gap between the way students live and the way they learn.
• According to the U.S. Department of Education (2009) “Students who took all of part of
their class online performed better, on average, than those taking the same course through
traditional face-to-face instruction..”.
• Most students take one to three classes online for a variety of reasons.
• Most students still want to attend their home high school and participate in high school
activities, they just need or want online learning for a variety of reasons, including
scheduling issues.
• If a student wants to do full-time online, Spokane Virtual Learning suggests the home
school parent partnership program in order to provide them with some school experience.
• There may be ways that Spokane and Bellingham can work together to provide teachers
for classes for each other that, individually, the districts can’t provide.

School Board Minutes
April 14, 2011
Page 2 of 5

Key factors for success—
• The online curriculum is aligned with Washington State Standards and National
Standards for Quality Online Learning.
• Student support.
• Rosetta Stone is used for language courses.
• All of the teachers are scheduled for one to two hours online.
• Most kids use online learning at night.
• Spokane Virtual Learning recommends a face-to-face orientation for students, teachers
and parents. Parents are able to go online and observe their student’s work.
• Spokane will train our teachers if we want to use our own teachers for a class.
• Spokane now has some middle school courses and they are migrating down to lower
grades.
Ms. Whiteaker responded to questions from the Board regarding the program, marketing,
funding and the learning management system they use.
The Study Session concluded at 7:10 p.m. and President Whitmyer reconvened the regular
meeting at 7:15 p.m.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Ken Gass moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of March 24, 2011 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, March 31, 2011
WCIP, investment, April 7, 2011

($1,185,000.00)
$304,600.00

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, March 31, 2011
WCIP, investment, April 7, 2011

($2,078,725.00)
$34,600.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, March 31, 2011
WCIP, investment, April 7, 2011

$257,270.00
$179,150.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, March 31, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, April 7, 2011

($66,650.00)
($12,030.00)

School Board Minutes
April 14, 2011
Page 3 of 5
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, March 2011
Approval of expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Gifts and Donations
Approval of gifts and donations as submitted.
Surplus Equipment
Approval of surplus equipment as submitted.
Student Trip
Squalicum High School students to participate in the 2011 Zodiac trip, May 13–15, 2011 aboard
the schooner Zodiac.
Contracts
a) Interlocal Cooperative Agreement between Bellingham School District and Northwest
ESD 189 for the ESD to provide services to two students in the Deaf/Hard of Hearing
Cooperative Program for the 2011–12 school year.
b) Interlocal Cooperative Agreement between Bellingham School District and Northwest
ESD 189 for the ESD to provide services to 19 students in the Whatcom Discovery
Cooperative Program for the 2011–12 school year.
Student Fines and Fee Schedule
Approval of student fines and fees schedule for 2011–2012 school year, as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Diana Lievanos to serve as a Spanish interpreter from April 2011 through August 31,
2011.
b) Thomas Hoff to serve as a school psychologist on an as-needed basis from April 15, 2011
through the remainder of the 2010–11 school year.
Personnel Recommendations
Approval of personnel recommendations, as submitted.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Steve Smith attended the National School Board Association Annual Conference in San
Francisco, California. He indicated he would report later on individual workshops he attended
but felt the conference was a valuable experience. He also attended a reception at the home of
President and Mrs. Shepard, to benefit the District’s GRADS program.
Ken Gass visited Anacortes School District on April 14 along with Ann Whitmyer, John
Getchell, Ken Russell and Nancy Merry to learn more about the software program they use for
Policy Governance. Dr. Gass said Anacortes was very generous with their time and materials.

School Board Minutes
April 14, 2011
Page 4 of 5
Scott Stockburger also attended the National School Board Association Annual Conference in
San Francisco, California. The workshops he attended were very interesting and valuable. He
recommended at least some members of the Board should consider attending the next annual
conference, which will be held in Boston, Massachusetts.
Kelly Bashaw attended the reception at the home of Western Washington University President,
Bruce and Cyndie Shepard, benefiting the GRADS program.
Ann Whitmyer met with Dr. Gass and Dr. Baker on Monday to review details of the Board
meeting and other issues. She also attended the GRADS reception at the home of President and
Mrs. Shepard and felt it was not only fun to see others but it was also a successful event. She also
joined Dr. Gass and other District staff for the field trip to Anacortes School District to discuss
Policy Governance.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Baker thanked Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma and Bellingham High School
Principal Steve Clarke for their work in coordinating today’s Study Session.
Audience
No audience presented.

ACTION
Resolution 2-11, Adoption of 2011–12 Reduced Educational Program
Dr. Greg Baker reported that until the Legislature adopts a budget later this spring, we will not
know the exact amount of reductions that are needed. In both the Governor’s and House versions
of the proposed budgets, more than $2 million in state Initiative 728 and K-4 funds that we are
currently using to hire teachers to reduce class size would be eliminated. The District cannot wait
until the final budget is approved by the State to send preliminary notifications to staff. By
adopting this Resolution, the District may move forward with the legal requirement to notify
certificated staff by May 15 who would be impacted by a reduced educational program.
Kenn Gass moved and Steve Smith seconded the motion to adopt Resolution 2-11, Adoption of
2011-12 Reduced Educational Program. The motion carried unanimously.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
At 7:45 p.m., President Whitmyer moved to begin Executive Session. The purpose of the
Executive Session was for a student disciplinary hearing. At 8:13 p.m., President Whitmyer
adjourned the Executive Session and reconvened the regular meeting.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Ken Gass assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was good.

School Board Minutes
April 14, 2011
Page 5 of 5

Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:15 p.m.

