BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 9, 2011
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session June 9, 2011 in the Board
Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
At 7:00 p.m. President Ann Whitmyer called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Ann
Whitmyer, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw moved and Scott Stockburger seconded approval of the consent agenda. The
motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of May 26, 2011 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, May 26, 2011

($2,991,250.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, May 26, 2011

($200,985.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, withdrawal June 1, 2011

($1,989,800.00)

ASB FUND
WCIP, investment, May 26, 2011

$23,545.00

School Board Minutes
June 9, 2011
Page 2 of 5

Approval of Donations
Action on donations as submitted.
Approval of Contracts
a) Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services Agreement with Meridian School District
for the Construction Careers Academy.
b) Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services Agreement with Northwest Career &
Technical Academy.
Review of Procedure 3200, Student Rights and Responsibilities
Review of edits in the procedure to align with recent administrative responsibility changes, to
delete duplicated information and reorganize the information.
Student Trips
a) Sehome High School Cross-Country Team to attend a Cross Country Retreat on Orcas
Island, Washington, July 25–29, 2011.
b) Sehome High School cheerleaders to attend Washington State Cheer Association Camp
at Central Washington University, July 11–15, 2011.
c) Bellingham High School Dance Team to attend the Elite Dance Camp in Bellevue,
Washington, July 8–12, 2011.
d) Bellingham High School Dance Team to attend the Northwest Dance Company in Kent,
Washington, July 14–16, 2011.
e) Bellingham High School Girls’ Wrestling Team to attend the North Idaho Wrestling
Camp in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho, July 5–8, 2011.
f) Bellingham High School Boys’ Wrestling Team to attend the Intensive Wrestling Camp
in Nine Mile Falls, Washington, July 10–16, 2011.
g) Bellingham High School Cross Country Team to attend Team Camp on Whidbey Island,
Washington, August 24–26, 2011.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Sonya Morrison to serve as Key Club advisor at Sehome High School during the 2010-11
school year.
b) Gabrielle Arness to provide music coaching services for high school orchestras during
March, April and May 2011.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Steve Smith attended the Senior Tea at Bellingham High School and commented how rewarding
it is to see the culmination of students’ work over the past 12 years.
Ken Gass attended the Proud to Be International Baccalaureate Ceremony at Northern Heights
Elementary School. Students were surprised by the Squalicum High School Marching Band. The

School Board Minutes
June 9, 2011
Page 3 of 5

Band participated in the celebration and had elementary students join them in a march around the
school. Dr. Gass also attended the retirement reception for Terry Hayse.
Scott Stockburger reported meeting with Dr. Baker and President Whitmyer for an update on
staffing. He also learned about “flipping,” an educational term for using the internet to provide
pre-classroom lectures at home and using classroom time to share that knowledge through
exercises, coaching and discussion. Dr. Stockburger attended the awards ceremony for the
Middle School Challenge and commented that new records were set. He met with a candidate
running for the School Board and attended the Fairhaven Middle School Band Concert. He is
looking forward to participating in the Squalicum and Options high schools graduations over the
next few days.
Kelly Bashaw attended a meeting with Dr. Baker and Director Steve Smith and will participate
in the Bellingham High School graduation. Ms. Bashaw indicated both she and Dr. Gass have
filed with the Auditor’s Office to run for reelection to the School Board.
Ann Whitmyer attended the Dollars for Scholars reception. This scholarship program pairs
donors with the recipients’ of their scholarships. President Whitmyer attended a lunch with Dr.
Baker and participated in the Northern Heights International Baccalaureate Celebration. She also
attended the YWCA Leadership Breakfast.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Greg Baker is looking forward to attending graduations at the high schools over the next
several days. Even as schools begin to celebrate the end of school, they are still working to
maximize teaching and learning. Dr. Baker thanked all District staff for their hard work
throughout the school year. He acknowledged Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma and
Executive Director Doug Kyles, both of whom are retiring. They have made outstanding
contributions to the District.
Dr. Baker gave a brief update on the state budget. He has met with a group of superintendents
from across the state for discussions about how to handle these budget cuts in a responsible way.
Shining Star Awards
Shining Star Awards are presented by the School Board to recognize outstanding accomplishments
of students, staff, schools and departments.
Puget Sound Energy Resource Conservation Manager Ben Rupert presented a trophy and a
Shining Star Certificate to Building and Grounds Manager Mike Anderson for the energy-saving
measures put into effect for the District. Due to these measures, the District has seen a 10.5%
reduction in energy use. Brett Greenwood, Business and Finance manager, also received a
Shining Star Certificate for his work with Mike Anderson in outstanding achievement in
resource conservation management.
Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma called the school nurses forward and, after introductions,
awarded a Shining Star Certificate to Nurse Barb Cummins for exemplary and life-saving

School Board Minutes
June 9, 2011
Page 4 of 5

nursing. Ms. Cummins referred a student for additional life-saving medical treatment based on
her assessment of the student.
Audience
No audience

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Executive Limitation Report, EL-17, Student Conduct and Discipline Monitoring Report
Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma gave a monitoring report on EL-17, Student Conduct
and Discipline, which states that the Superintendent may not:
1. Fail to adopt an age-appropriate, written, student conduct and discipline code that
complies with state and federal laws, nor fail to:
a. Consult with staff, students, and the community in developing the code;
b. Establish procedures to prohibit the use of drugs, alcohol, or tobacco products on
school property, at school-sponsored events, and on school buses;
c. Establish procedures to prohibit the presence of firearms or other dangerous weapons
on school property, at school-sponsored events, and on school buses;
d. Establish an age-appropriate dress code that can be enforced;
e. Establish procedures to afford students, parents, and school personnel equitable
treatment and due process with regard to student conduct and discipline issues;
f. Establish procedures for student interrogations, searches, and arrests;
g. Establish procedures for written appeal to the Board from a decision to expel,
suspend, or deny admission to a student;
h. Distribute the conduct and discipline code to each student;
i. Distribute to each student copies of any significant changes in the code, to include
changes at the school level.
2. Fail to ensure that the code is enforced, nor fail to:
a. Take appropriate measures to eliminate student behavior that is deemed to be
habitually disruptive of school operations or the learning process;
b. Identify students at risk of failure due to their conduct, and to provide interventions to
help them avoid such failure;
c. Discipline special education students in accordance with each student’s IEP;
d. Ensure that appropriate disciplinary information is communicated to staff members
who have direct contact with students being disciplined.
Mr. Brandsma reported to the Board evidence of compliance of Executive Limitation EL-17 for
the time period of September 1, 2010 through June 9, 2011.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING

School Board Minutes
June 9, 2011
Page 5 of 5

The Board heard monitoring reports on the following Executive Limitations:
• EL-5, Staff Compensation (May 26, 2011)
• EL-13, Academic Standards and Practices (March 24, 2011)
• EL-14, Academic Program (May 26, 2011)
• EL-15, Instructional Materials Selection (May 26, 2011)
As this is the first year the Board has fully implemented Policy Governance, they reviewed and
discussed the data presented in the reports and plan to discuss them and recommend additional
data at a future meeting.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
At 8:40 p.m. President Whitmyer adjourned the regular meeting for executive session. The
purpose of the executive session was negotiations and personnel issues. At 10:45 p.m. President
Whitmyer adjourned executive session and reconvened the regular session.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Scott Stockburger assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was good.

Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 10:50 p.m.

