DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 10, 2021

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

•

•

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
November 10, 2021 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Mason called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. She acknowledged that this meeting,
while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands of the
Coast Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz
Hackler, Jenn Mason (President), Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri
O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Ms. Mason noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19, public
participation is limited to written submissions only, and all written comments received
will be shared with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all messages
received.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
The district continues to follow the precautions recommended by health officials as it
pertains to the COVID-19 pandemic. Children ages five to eleven were recently approved
to receive the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, and as vaccination rates increase there will
likely be updated guidance from health officials. Executive Director of Family
Engagement Isabel Meaker and her family engagement team have been supporting
Operation School Bell as they plan to coordinate student vaccination clinics. Executive
Director of Operations Jessica Sankey shared that the district has partnered with the
Learn to Return program, which gives the district access to COVID-19 rapid tests for
staff who may have symptoms and would like verification that they do not have COVID19. Dr. Baker, Ms. Sankey and Ms. Meaker responded to questions from board members.
The Facilities Planning Task Force, which has been meeting this fall, held its fourth
meeting last week. Sustainability has been a focus for the task force. The meetings
initially were held via Zoom but have moved to in-person meetings, which has enabled
the task force to tour some of our current facilities. Dr. Baker shared some of the projects
that may be recommended by the task force, including building a new Community
Transitions facility; beginning the design process for three elementary schools that would
set the stage for a future bond to fund their construction; building a 15th elementary
school that would be used as a swing space while the other elementary schools are being
rebuilt; completing previously approved bond projects; making improvements at several
schools to improve safety, accessibility and inclusivity for all, such as playgrounds; and

upgrading HVAC and air circulation at some of our schools. Dr. Baker shared some
initial thinking regarding the proposed structure of a bond and noted that an upcoming
Inside Schools issue will include information about the proposed bond planning.
2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15

Approval of Minutes of the Oct. 13, 2021 Regular Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – October 2021
Resolution 23-21, Certification of 2022 Excess Property Taxes
Resolution 24-21, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Policy 6220 (update) – Bid Requirements
EL-5 Monitoring Report – Communication and Counsel to the Board
Communities in Schools of Whatcom-Skagit Agreement (#2122-058)
University of Washington Agreement – College in the High School (#2122-070)
Everett Community College Agreement – College in the High School (#2122-079)
Franklin Covey Client Sales, Inc. Agreement (#2122-085)
Learn to Return Funding Agreement (#2122-087)
Health Promotion Northwest Agreement (#2122-091)
Allied Arts of Whatcom County Agreement (#2122-093)
Kaiser Permanente Grant Agreement Amendment (#2122-094)
Mount Baker School District Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational
Services – Physical Therapy (#2122-095)
Pacific Party Canopies, Inc. Agreement (#2122-096)
Sendan Center Agreement for Services (#004-2122)
Thuan Nguyen Agreement for Services (#006-2122)
Personnel Recommendations

2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

3.2

4.0
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-1 (Attachment A). Ms. Mason will provide a final summary version of this document
which will be submitted for approval at the December 8, 2021 regular meeting.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-10, Race and Equity
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-10 (Attachment B). Ms. Mason will provide a final summary version of this
document which will be submitted for approval at the December 8, 2021 regular meeting.
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
B/SR-1 Board/Superintendent Connection
B/SR-2 Delegation to the Superintendent
B/SR-3 Superintendent Evaluation
B/SR-3.1.1 Monitoring Response Document
2

The board discussed whether changes are necessary to B/SR-1, B/SR-2, B/SR-3 and
B/SR-3.1. After discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion that the current board reaffirm
these policies and update the policies with the current date and board members’
signatures. Ms. Bashaw seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
5.0
5.1

5.2
6.0
6.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Diaz Hackler congratulated Ms. Mason and Mr. Benjamin on their re-elections.
She enjoyed yesterday’s board visit to Fairhaven Middle School and noted that it was
interesting to see the outside eating areas. She learned that some students’ favorite
part about being back in school is access to the school library. She was impressed by
the students who spoke with the board.
• Mr. Benjamin shared that the re-elections of he and Ms. Mason are an indicator that
the community is pleased with how our schools are doing. That confidence is due to
the competent work of the superintendent and his team. Today Mr. Benjamin emailed
a document to the board regarding WSSDA board standards. He also recently
attended the WSSDA Area 1 meeting and forwarded his meeting notes to board
members. The term of the Area 1 representative is coming to an end, and he
encouraged the board members to consider applying for this position. The visit to
Fairhaven Middle School went very well, and he found the students to be very
articulate. He believes that it’s very valuable for board members to hear from the
students. He also respects how the school has taken a closer look at its heritage.
• Ms. Bashaw attended the virtual WSSDA Legislative Conference last weekend. It
was her first time attending the conference, so she did not know what to expect.
When she receives information about the outcome of the conference, she will share it
with the other board members. She found the introduction outlining the history of
Fairhaven Middle School given by Principal Steve Ruthford to be very interesting.
She also thought it was impressive that the middle school students, who do not begin
school until 9:15 a.m., were at school two hours early to meet with the board. She
reminded the board that Dr. Baker attended the American Association of School
Administrators (AASA) gala and superintendent forum in Washington, D.C. last
week, to celebrate his Washington State Superintendent of the Year award from 2020.
She knows that he and his team work incredibly hard and she’s happy that he
received the recognition.
• Ms. Mason is happy that this is not her last meeting as a school board director, and
she agrees with Mr. Benjamin that their re-election success can be attributed to Dr.
Baker and the district’s staff. She found the Fairhaven Middle School land statement
to be very meaningful and authentic to the history of the school and agreed that
student voice at the board’s school visits is always appreciated.
• Ms. Rose applauded Ms. Mason and Mr. Benjamin for standing by their principles
during a time when there is a large amount of criticism.
GP-7.2 – 2021-22 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.
NEW BUSINESS
Ms. Diaz Hackler noted that the WSSDA Annual Conference is coming up and reminded
the board that there is a health check process in order to attend.
3

6.2

Dr. Baker shared that, after nine years with the Bellingham Public Schools, Assistant
Superintendent of Human Resources Bob Kuehl announced his retirement this week.
Board members congratulated Mr. Kuehl, and he noted that it has been his pleasure to
serve the board and Dr. Baker.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Mason assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:09 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

