DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
WITH PUBLIC HEARING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 11, 2021

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

•

•

•

•

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
August 11, 2021 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Mason called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged that this meeting,
while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands of the
Coast Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz
Hackler, Jenn Mason (President), Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri
O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Ms. Mason noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19, public
participation is limited to written submissions only, and all written comments received
will be shared with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all messages
received.
Public Hearing on Adoption of 2021-22 Budget
Ms. Mason explained that the purpose of the public hearing, which is to provide an
opportunity for anyone who would like to speak for or against the adoption of the 202122 budget to comment before the board takes action on the budget later this evening. No
audience presented, and no public testimony was offered relating to the proposed budget
adoption.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
Some students and staff have continued to be on-site throughout the summer, with more
staff now beginning to return from summer break. This week staff has been busy, with
the executive team meeting for its retreat on Monday; the district’s leadership team
retreat was held on Tuesday at Sehome High School; and the district’s administrative
assistants gathered at Options High School for their annual meeting today. Leadership
teams from all 23 schools, consisting of 3-8 people per team (administrators, counselors,
deans, teacher leaders) met today at Sehome High School and will gather again tomorrow
to plan professional learning at each school connected to the overall goals of the district.
With the first day of school being September 1, there will be a lot of professional
development taking place over the next couple of weeks.
The landscape is continually changing with regard to the pandemic, with the best
protection against COVID-19 being vaccination and masks. It appears that younger
students may be eligible for vaccine administration this fall or winter, and while

•
•

2.0

vaccination is not currently required for school staff, it is encouraged. Dr. Baker reviewed
some of the other layers of protection that will be in place to protect students and
highlighted some of the changes from last school year to the present. He then responded
to questions from the school board.
Dr. Baker gave an update on the construction of Alderwood and Parkview elementary
schools, which will open for students on Sept. 1, and the beginning phases of
construction for the new Sunnyland Elementary School.
Over the next few weeks, we expect more discussion nationally and locally about
masking and vaccines.
CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Diaz Hackler indicated that an immediate family member is employed by
Construction Supply Co., and agenda item 2.2 contains an invoice from Construction
Supply Co. Ms. Bashaw indicated that she is employed by Whatcom Community
College, and agenda item 2.2 contains an invoice from Whatcom Community College. To
avoid a conflict of interest per RCW 42.23.030, Ms. Diaz Hackler and Ms. Bashaw will
recuse themselves from voting on item 2.2 (Approval of Expenditures and Payroll). Ms.
Diaz Hackler made a motion to vote on item 2.2 separately. Mr. Benjamin seconded the
motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items:

2.1
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17

Approval of Minutes of the July 14, 2021 Regular Meeting
Resolution 17-21, Adoption of 2021-22 Budget
Resolution 18-21, Use of Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association (VEBA) III
Sick Leave Cash-Out Health Reimbursement Plan
Resolution 19-21, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Resolution 20-21, 2021-22 School Board Regular Meeting Schedule
Constructability Review Report, Sunnyland Elementary School
Amendment of Easement to City of Bellingham for Waterline Facilities
AVID Center Products and Services Quote/Order for 2021-22 (#2122-029)
Washington Reading Corps Contract (#2122-034)
Washington Student Achievement Council (#2122-035)
Whatcom Family YMCA Summer Childcare Partnership Agreement (#2122-036)
Curriculum Associates Agreement (#2121-041)
Whatcom Family YMCA Before and After School Care Agreement (#2122-047)
Whatcom Health Department Behavioral Contract Amendment (#2122-048)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Rose made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the following consent
agenda item:

2

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – July 2021

2.2

Affirmative votes: Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Mason, Ms. Rose.
Abstention: Ms. Bashaw, Ms. Diaz Hackler.
3.0
3.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-2, Organizational Continuity
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-2 report
that was prepared by Ms. Mason. Following discussion, Ms. Bashaw made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to approve the monitoring response document
(Attachment A). Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – Ends 1, 2, 3 (Combined)
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the Ends 1, 2, 3
(combined) report that was prepared by Ms. Mason. Following discussion, Mr. Benjamin
made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to approve the monitoring response
document (Attachment B). Unanimous affirmative vote.

3.2

4.0
4.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
GP-7 Agenda Planning
Mr. Benjamin noted that it was difficult to follow this policy over the past year due to the
pandemic. No changes.

4.2

GP-7.1 Board Self-Assessment
No changes.

4.3

GP-7.2 Annual Board Agenda
Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, that GP-7.2, Annual Board
Agenda, be approved. Unanimous approval.

5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
Ms. Diaz Hackler noted that the board regularly receives letters and comments from
parents and the community, which all are reviewed by the board. She noted that there will
always be differing opinions from the community and the board makes its decisions
based upon what they believe is best, keeping in mind that sometimes we need to agree to
disagree on issues.
Ms. Mason thanked staff for the tremendous amount of work that went into preparing the
2021-22 budget.
Mr. Benjamin thanked Ms. Mason for her comments regarding the budget preparation, as
the budget book tells the story of what the district does. It’s not just about numbers but is
an instructive tool.
Ms. Rose is looking forward to the return to in-person board meetings. She also is
grateful for district staff presenting information to the board in a concise, clear way,
which allows the board to do their job. Board meetings are for members of the school
board to do their work and are not a platform for others to spread misinformation.

•

•
•
•

3

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Benjamin and Ms. Mason noted that the board is looking forward to the public being
able to address the board in person. Dr. Baker shared that district staff is working on what
it would take to return to in-person meetings, keeping in mind that the COVID-19
landscape is always changing.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Diaz Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:41 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Jennifer I. Mason, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved:

4

