DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 14, 2021

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

•
•
•

•

•

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
July 14, 2021 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Mason called the meeting to order at 6 p.m. She acknowledged that this meeting,
while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands of the
Coast Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz
Hackler, Jenn Mason (President), Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri
O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Ms. Mason noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19, public
participation is limited to written submissions only, and all written comments received
will be shared with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all messages
received.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
Guidelines in connection with COVID-19 safety protocols continue to be monitored, and
it is hoped that the school board may begin meeting in person beginning in September.
The mayor of the City of Bellingham asked that Bellingham High School Commons be
opened as a cooling shelter during a heat wave at the end of June. District staff provided
on-site support from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. June 26-28.
The BHS Mascot Change Task Force has submitted its recommendation to change the
mascot from the Bellingham Red Raiders to the Bellingham Bayhawks. The next step in
the process will be to engage with graphic designers to create logo options.
The 2021-22 draft budget has been prepared, and Dr. Baker gave a brief overview of the
MSOCs (materials, supplies and operating costs) outlined in the budget. Staff will be
available to answer questions between now and the August 11 board meeting when an
official vote will be taken to adopt the 2021-22 budget. Dr. Baker thanked the finance
and communications teams for their work to create the budget storyline for the draft
budget.
Dr. Baker gave an update on construction projects at Alderwood and Parkview
elementary schools, both of which will open to students on Sept. 1, 2021. The Shuksan
Middle School auxiliary gym and Bellingham High School field projects have been
completed, and construction has now begun at Sunnyland Elementary School. Dr. Baker
responded to questions from board members.

•

With the 2021-22 school year starting on Sept. 1, many are wondering what the school
year will look like. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) will create guidelines related
to COVID-19 safety, and states will then work to create laws and guidance for schools
based on those guidelines. Once the state communicates the laws and recommendations
to districts, staff will work to put them into place. Dr. Baker responded to questions from
board members.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3

Approval of Minutes of the June 9, 2021 Regular Meeting with Public Hearing
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – June 2021
Resolution 16-21, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Sunnyland Elementary School Trail Easement
Sunnyland Elementary School Quit Claim Deed Conveyance
Sunnyland Elementary School Right of Way Encroachment License
Sunnyland Elementary School Covenant to Bind
Sunnyland Elementary School Lot Line Adjustment
Brock’s Academy Tuition Agreements (#2021-065B, $2021-065C)
Dairy Distributing, Inc. Agreement (#2122-023)
Walton Beverage Snack and Beverage Vending Agreement (#2122-024)
City of Bellingham Housing and Human Services Financial Assistance Agreement
(#2122-027)
NWESD 189 Safe Schools and Threat Assessment Agreement (#2122-032)
Malcolm Oliver Addendum to Agreement for Services
Sendan Center Second Addendum to Agreement for Services
Vamos Outdoors Project Agreement for Services
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

APPOINT LEGISLATIVE REPRESENTATIVE
Appoint School Board Legislative Representative
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to nominate Ms. Bashaw for the position of legislative
representative. After discussion, Ms. Bashaw agreed to serve. Unanimous affirmative
vote.

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-2, Organizational Continuity
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-2 (Attachment A). Ms. Mason will provide a final summary version of this document
which will be submitted for approval at the August 11, 2021 regular meeting.

2

4.2

Board Response to Monitoring – Ends 1, 2, 3 (Combined)
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
Ends 1, 2, 3 combined (Attachment B). After discussion, Mr. Benjamin asked that his
response to question 1 be changed from b to a. Ms. Mason will provide a final summary
version of this document which will be submitted for approval at the August 11, 2021
regular meeting.

5.0
5.1

5.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Mr. Benjamin attended a Critical Race Theory (CRT) training provided by WSSDA
and WASA titled “Questions and Answers about CRT”. He appreciates the
information received at that training, as well as information on the topic from Dr.
Baker. He hopes the board will continue this hard but important work.
• Ms. Bashaw enjoyed attending the June graduation ceremonies for Bellingham High
School, Options High School and Community Transitions. Last evening, she watched
the recorded ceremony for Sehome High School online. The weather cooperated and
all the graduations went smoothly, thanks to the work of staff who did a great job
transitioning between the ceremonies.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler regretfully was not able to attend graduation ceremonies due to a
family health emergency. She noted that school board positions are unpaid, but it
feels that attending graduation is payment for the time spent as a board member. She
is appreciative of the work that staff did in connection with the graduations.
• Ms. Rose was also unable to attend the graduation ceremonies in person but enjoyed
viewing the recordings. She expressed gratitude for the district for providing support
to the community by opening BHS as a cooling shelter last month during the
unprecedented heat wave.
• Ms. Mason agreed that graduation ceremonies were amazing. She recognizes that
COVID-19 has created tension between keeping people connected and safe, and she
knows a lot of behind-the-scenes work was necessary for the graduation ceremonies
to be so seamless. She noted that she reviewed the report submitted by the BHS
Mascot Change Task Force and expressed gratitude for those who participated in that
work.
GP-7.2 – 2020-21 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Rose assessed the meeting, with an overall rating of
4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:44 p.m.

7.2

3

Approved:

Jennifer I. Mason, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

