DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING WITH PUBLIC HEARING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 9, 2021

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

•

•

1.4

•

•

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
June 9, 2021 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Mason called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged that this meeting,
while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands of the
Coast Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason
(President), Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). Director
Camille Diaz Hackler was unable to attend the meeting.
Audience Comments/Public Hearing on Capital Facilities Plan:
Ms. Mason noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19, public
participation is limited to written submissions only, and all written comments received
will be shared with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all messages
received.
Ms. Mason explained that the purpose of the public hearing is to take public comment
regarding the district’s Capital Facilities Plan. No public comment was offered relating to
the proposed plan.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
Dr. Baker explained that playgrounds are an important consideration when building a
new elementary school. He introduced Executive Director of Operations Jessica Sankey,
who shared the work of the Playground Standards Ad-Hoc Advisory Committee. The
committee has been meeting with the goal of ensuring our playgrounds are as inclusive as
possible for all kids, and Jessica showed some examples of playground layouts being
considered for the new Parkview, Alderwood and Sunnyland elementary schools. Jessica
and Dr. Baker responded to questions and comments from the board.
Dr. Baker introduced Kim Lund, executive director of the Bellingham Public Schools
Foundation (BPSF). Kim shared a summary of support BPSF has provided since March
of 2020 which includes internet and utility support for families; items for the food pantry;
salary support for grant writers, the volunteer coordinator and culinary program manager;
GRADS support; Outdoor Educator Alliance programming; One Schoolhouse/EDI
support; support for visual/performing arts, including the purchase of 66 new strings
instruments and online Music First curriculum licenses; and educator grants. Since the
summer of 2011, BPSF has raised over $4 million for the Bellingham Public Schools.
The board expressed their gratitude to Kim and the board of the foundation for the

•

•
•
•

phenomenal support that has been provided for students in the district and our
community.
The board will be presented with a draft budget at its July 14, 2021 meeting, with the
final budget to be voted on at the August 11, 2021 school board meeting. Over the past
year, districts across the state have had a loss of revenue due to decreased enrollment,
loss of transportation funding and regionalization. There have been some savings
associated with the pandemic (staff not attending conferences, students not going on field
trips, etc.). We hope that many families will choose to return their students to in-person
learning in the fall. There has been federal support since the beginning of the pandemic
which has helped districts to avoid budget cuts, although districts need to continue to be
cautious about spending. The greatest investment for a district is in its staff, in the form
of salaries and benefits. Another large investment is support for students who receive
Special Education and English Language Learners (ELL) services. Dr. Baker reviewed
additional support provided via Project Free Education: athletics; ASB cards; yearbooks;
universal meals; and universal technology. Some examples of increased school support
include added elementary PE and music instruction and instructional coaching; the AVID
(Advancement Via Individual Determination) program being added to Whatcom Middle
School; increased custodial hours; support added for the family engagement team; choir
at Shuksan and Whatcom middle schools; continued innovation and flexibility, such as
the ability of families to choose the Bellingham Family Partnership Program; the addition
of a director of health services; health aides to support the work of school nurses;
personal protective equipment (PPE); early childhood activities; mental health/wellness
services; and foundational literacy. Dr. Baker and Jay Jordan, assistant superintendent of
teaching and learning, answered questions from board members.
Jackie Brawley, executive director of communications and community relations, shared
that the district’s mascot, Hami the hamster, who has been featured on the district’s social
media accounts, now has their own email address and has been engaging with students.
This Saturday all four high schools will hold their graduation ceremonies at Civic Field.
Each graduate of the three larger high schools will receive four guest tickets.
Dr. Baker shared a photo of an outdoor Sehome High School wrestling practice.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, to approve the following consent agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the May 12, 2021 Regular Meeting and May 26, 2021
Special Meeting with Public Hearing
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – May 2021
Resolution 13-21, Declaring Special Market Conditions and Waiving Competitive
Bidding Requirements
Resolution 14-21, Acceptance of Capital Facilities Plan
Resolution 15-21, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment #2 – Sunnyland Elementary School
Rebuild
Security Enhancement Project – Change Order

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7

2

2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18

EL-2 Monitoring Report – Organizational Continuity
Communities in Schools of Whatcom-Skagit Agreement (#2021-046)
City of Bellingham Program Agreement (#2021-107)
Washington Student Achievement Council Amendment to Data Sharing Agreement
(#2021-132)
The People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond Service Authorization (#2021-134)
Whatcom Discovery Program 2020-21 Interlocal Cooperative Agreement
Amendment (#2021-138)
Whatcom Discovery Program 2021-22 Interlocal Cooperative Agreement
Amendment (#2122-003B)
Northwest Educational Service District 189 Contract (#2122-022)
Sendan Center Addendum to Agreement for Services
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.

3.0
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Monitoring Report Ends 1, 2, 3 (combined report)
Dr. Mike Copland, deputy superintendent, and Brian Rick, director of research and
assessment, discussed the report and responded to questions and comments from the
board.
Review Governance Process Policies GP-1 through GP-6
Governance Process Policies GP-1 through GP-6 are reviewed annually. There are no
changes to the policies recommended at this time.

3.2

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-6, Academic Standards and Provisions
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-6 report
that was prepared by Ms. Mason. Following discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment A).
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-8, District Calendar
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-8 report
that was prepared by Ms. Mason. Following discussion, Ms. Bashaw made a motion,
seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment
B). Unanimous affirmative vote.

4.2

5.0
5.1

•

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
Mr. Benjamin stated that Dr. Baker has provided a good deal of balanced information
regarding critical race theory (CRT) and he encouraged the board to take a good look at
the information so there can be discussions about what CRT is and what it isn’t. Mr.
Benjamin has been reflecting on the past 15 months and what the district has been
through, and there are two areas that stand out for him. The first is how the staff has
worked on the health aspect of the pandemic, and he appreciates the amount of work and
3

•

•

•

5.2

the fact that it has continued to be a moving target. The other outstanding area is the
technology staff, with every student and staff member being provided equipment and
support with regards to technology. These groups of staff are the people behind the
scenes who have done a phenomenal job keeping kids and staff connected.
Ms. Bashaw is appreciative of the work that has occurred to keep up with the rapidly
changing circumstances related to the pandemic and student learning. Everyone has
worked so hard this year, and Dr. Baker has kept the board updated and informed
throughout the entire time. Dr. Baker’s leadership, including hiring good staff to carry out
the work, has been superb.
Ms. Rose also applauded the efforts of staff during the pandemic, which has been a
massive endeavor over the past 15 months and steering the district through it all has been
quite a feat. No one has lost sight of the goal, and the leadership in the district focusing
on all students in the community receiving the support they need has been incredible.
Ms. Mason recently met with some fifth-grade students at Alderwood regarding women
in leadership and women’s rights. She remarked that the atmosphere felt like a normal
school day with class time, recess, etc. She appreciates all the hard work on behalf of
students and hopes that everyone can have an enjoyable summer.
GP-7.2 – 2020-21 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
Ms. Mason noted that Dr. Baker’s performance is evaluated by the school board
throughout the school year by way of responses to policy monitoring. Mr. Benjamin
thanked Ms. Mason for compiling the evaluation summary and reminded everyone that it
can be found on the district website. Ms. Bashaw acknowledged the work of Dr. Baker’s
team in support of the Bellingham Promise.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Mason assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Jennifer I. Mason, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

ATTACHMENT A
6-9-21 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-6, Academic Standards and Provisions
Date Report Submitted: 4/14/21
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5/12/21
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
This school year pushed the limits of adapting academics and everything that goes along with it to
remote/hybrid learning, often at an incredibly rapid pace. The district displayed a remarkable
ability to reimplement digital resources in order to continue learning during the abrupt shift to athome during the COVID-19 pandemic, and cope with dramatically shifting demands, e.g. growth
at BFPP and fully remote options. The evidence demonstrates how advantage was taken from the
“push” of the pandemic demands to accelerate the exploration of many new instructional methods
and platforms, like Lexia and Dreambox.
Despite the pandemic, the superintendent continued to progress in initiatives that were started
previously. The hiring of an EDI Director, expansion of mental health services, continued
exploration into math instruction and increased enrollment in Promise K are particularly notable
achievements at this time.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
No areas identified.

1

ATTACHMENT A
6-9-21 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-6, Academic Standards and Provisions
Date Report Submitted: 4/14/21
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5/12/21
4. Comments on the report itself.
None.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
No changes identified.

2

ATTACHMENT B
6-9-21 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-8, District Calendar
Date Report Submitted: 4/14/21
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5/12/21
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
As with other areas, the superintendent showed remarkable agility in adapting to the demands
forced suddenly upon the entire school system due to the pandemic and a move to online/hybrid
learning. This is evidenced by adjusting the calendar to allow for more staff learning days prior to
the start of the school year and developing more professional learning opportunities to support the
seismic shift into doing remote and hybrid learning. Despite this, absences from professional
learning continue to drop.
This was an especially tumultuous year of calendar changes due to the pandemic; the
superintendent’s communication was prompt and provided as much clarity as possible in a rapidly
shifting environment. There was also tremendous effort to coordinate services to help meet
families’ basic and learning needs.
Finally, the board recognizes the deep connections made with families receiving special education
services during this time. Special Education teachers built strong connections with families during
the pandemic, both through family outreach and assistive technology that can be used across
home and school.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
No areas identified.
1

ATTACHMENT B
6-9-21 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-8, District Calendar
Date Report Submitted: 4/14/21
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5/12/21
4. Comments on the report itself.
The board appreciated the quotes and comments from staff. It brought a human element to the
report and truly reflected the innovation that has occurred due to the pandemic.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
No changes identified.

2

