DRAFT MINUTES OF THE STUDENT ROUNDTABLE SPECIAL MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 30, 2022 1:15-2:15 p.m.
Linkage Attendees:
• Third grade students from Alderwood Elementary School
• Directors present: Kelly Bashaw (President), Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz
Hackler, Jenn Mason. Director Katie Rose was absent.
• Superintendent of Bellingham Public Schools Greg Baker
• District Leadership and Staff: Executive Director Jackie Brawley; Assistant
Superintendent Kristi Dominguez; Executive Director Kurt Gazow; Executive Director
Trina Hall; Executive Director Isabel Meaker; Assistant Superintendent Simone
Sangster; Executive Director Jessica Sankey; Alderwood teacher Kellie Goodman;
Alderwood Principal Micah Smith; Alderwood Dean of Students Barbara del Wraa;
Executive Administrative Assistant Sheri O’Day (notetaker).
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions: School Board President Kelly Bashaw
called the meeting to order at 1:17 p.m. Superintendent Greg Baker welcomed attendees
and invited all to introduce themselves.
Meeting Purpose – Explanation of Student Roundtable: Ms. Bashaw thanked
everyone for taking time to be here this afternoon. Student roundtables give the school
board an opportunity to strengthen the connection with our students, and the school board
is excited to hear what students have to say about their experiences. She shared that the
school board and district are also interested in seeking input on the goals we have set for
our students through the board policies expressed in our strategic plan, The Bellingham
Promise. There are eight guiding questions located on each table, and the hope is for each
group to discuss as many of the guiding questions as time allows.
Small Group Discussion with School Board Members and Facilitators: For
discussion purposes, student attendees, board members and executive team members
were divided into five groups, facilitated by Kelly Bashaw, Doug Benjamin, Camille
Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason and Kristi Dominguez. The small groups focused on the
following guiding questions:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Tell me about a time when you felt really loved at school.
What do you want to be when you grow up?
Thinking about your daily schedule, what is your favorite part of the day?
What do you like about your new building?

5. What works best to support your learning?
6. How do students work through problems here?
7. What are some of the things we could be doing differently to help you or your
friends?
8. When do you use technology at school?
At the end of the small group time, Dr. Baker asked each table group to share briefly
about their small group discussions. Following is a summary of responses to the guiding
questions:
•
•
•
•

•

•

Table #1: The students’ favorite subjects are recess, math and writing.
Table #2: Math is unanimously the students’ favorite subject, especially
multiplication, division and solving problems. The students know a lot about
technology, which is impressive.
Table #3: Favorite subjects for the students are math and reading, especially story
problems. Their life goals include adventuring. Students talked about technology
and their use of DreamBox.
Table #4: Students love the new Alderwood Elementary School building and
playground, and the fact that the building has two stories. They felt loved when
everyone knew their name on the first day of school. They believe Minecraft
should be on all computers.
Table #5: Math fit into all of the students’ goals. The new playground is a hit,
especially when compared to the old playground which felt less safe. Students
like the chandelier light fixtures and they would like adults to bring back cooking
class and gardening. They are also curious about how to get onto the school
board.
Mrs. Goodman loved hearing from her students and is thankful for the
opportunity for the students to participate in the roundtable meeting.

Dr. Baker thanked everyone for being here this afternoon. Student voice is important and
helps the school board and district determine how to make things better.
Ms. Bashaw also thanked everyone for attending and adjourned the meeting at 1:53 p.m.
Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, School Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ____________

2

