DRAFT MINUTES OF THE COMMUNITY LINKAGE SPECIAL MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 12, 2022 6:30-7:30 p.m.
Shuksan Middle School
Linkage Attendees:
• Shuksan parents/guardians
• Dr. Verónica Vélez, Associate Professor, Woodring College of Education,
Western Washington University
• Directors present: Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose.
Director Camille Diaz Hackler was absent.
• Superintendent of Bellingham Public Schools Greg Baker
• District Leadership and Staff: Executive Director of Communications and Community
Relations Jackie Brawley; Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland; Assistant
Superintendent of Teaching and Learning Kristi Dominguez; Executive Director of
Teaching and Learning Trina Hall; Assistant Director of Early Childhood and Family
Engagement Debora Haney; Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning Jay
Jordan; Assistant Superintendent of Finance Simone Sangster; Shuksan Middle School
Principal Matt Whitten and members of the family engagement team.
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions: School Board President Kelly Bashaw
called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. and welcomed everyone. She introduced
Superintendent Greg Baker who welcomed attendees and invited individual table groups
to share introductions at their tables. He then introduced Executive Director of Family
Engagement Isabel Meaker.
Ms. Meaker shared that she began working in the district 12 years ago and is happy to see
families at the meeting who she has formed friendships with. One of those friendships is
with Dr. Verónica Vélez, who was recently recognized for her work in the district with a
Bellingham Promise Award. She has helped the district develop Ethnic Studies courses
that are reaching our students. This evening Dr. Vélez is going to present results from a
recent survey of families. She then introduced Dr. Vélez.
Dr. Vélez shared that as a child she saw her parents struggle, and she believes it
important for the school district and families to work together to bring about authentic
collaboration within the community. She reviewed the results of a survey of
parents/families that received a high level of participation (232 responses). Results
showed that families believe:

•
•
•
•
•
•

School leaders make adjustments when things aren’t working well
School leaders listen well and create a welcoming environment
Teachers and staff love my child
The school communicates well with families and the format is easy to understand
My child is receiving a high-quality education
The school is a safe place

Parents’ biggest concern is around their children’s safety.
Ms. Meaker introduced Maggie Orozco, Maria Collado and Delia Robles, who spoke
about their experiences as parents in the district. This is some of what they shared:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

There has been a big change in the Bellingham Public Schools between the time
my now 27-year-old sons attended school and my now 11-year-old is attending.
With my older sons, it was very difficult to communicate with the school.
The Family Resource Center reached out to ask how they could help, and I
realized it was authentic.
It is a different world for my younger son, and I know I can ask for help when
needed.
The word “inclusion” in The Bellingham Promise is important to me. I understand
the concept more and thank the district for that.
My daughter, who is now 27 years old, entered the Bellingham Public Schools
with no English and no support. She has now almost completed her medical
degree.
I was nervous about my children being in the portables in the old Shuksan Middle
School. I am now confident that my children are safe in school, with teachers who
will help them succeed.

Ms. Meaker then introduced Crystal Morales, a student who graduated from Bellingham
Public Schools. She and her five brothers began school in Skagit Valley and moved to
Alderwood Elementary School when she was in fourth grade. She met Ms. Meaker in
2009, graduated from Squalicum High School in 2016 and decided to attend university.
Her parents were agricultural workers who were not able to attend school beyond the
primary grades. Ms. Morales graduated from college in 2020 and decided to work in
Whatcom County to help other families and students. She was recently hired by
Bellingham Public Schools as a Family Resource Center Coordinator.
Ms. Meaker encouraged parents to take the next five minutes to talk with the people at
the table who can effect change. She then introduced Ricardo Sanchez, a parent with
students at Alderwood Elementary School and Shuksan Middle School. Mr. Sanchez
shared a graph that shows the graduation rate for Latinx students increasing from 57.5%
in 2010 to 85.1% in 2019. He thanked the school board for hiring Dr. Baker, as his values
of service, as well as those around him, are reflected every day. He noted that Ms.
Meaker goes above and beyond for those who she interacts with. He also recognized
Alderwood principal Micah Smith. Last Friday Mr. Smith provided a barbeque for his
staff and students, and while he was cooking, he was interacting with everyone, and

2

students were very excited to see him cook. While cooking, he bent down to tie a
student’s shoelaces.
Ms. Meaker presented school board members with gift bags containing written messages
from families who were not able to attend this evening. Parents then cheered for Dr.
Baker, as he has given families the opportunity for progress and has given all children
opportunities to be future leaders.
Dr. Baker shared that in 2010, his first year as superintendent, he saw the Latinx
graduation rate and knew something needed to change. He made the decision to promote
Ms. Meaker to the executive level in the district. He is very proud of the staff and of the
students who have gone through our system. It is an honor to serve the parents and it was
great to hear their stories. On behalf of himself and the school board, he thanked
everyone for attending this evening, for their kind words and the good food.
Ms. Bashaw also thanked everyone for attending adjourned the meeting at 7:39 p.m.

Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, School Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ______________

3

