DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING/PUBLIC HEARING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 14, 2020

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
October 14, 2020 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. He acknowledged that this
meeting, while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands
of the Coast Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin
(President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri
O’Day (recorder). Director Jenn Mason was unable to attend.
Audience:
Mr. Benjamin noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19,
public participation is limited to written submissions only, and all written comments
received will be shared with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all
messages received.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• A message sent to families and staff on Monday regarding Indigenous Peoples
Day/Coast Salish Day, and it was well received and appreciated by many, including
many of our students. Some who responded feel that it should still be referred to as
Columbus Day. Overall, the message was well received and appreciated by most.
• Dr. Baker gave an overview of where the district is with remote learning. Middle and
high school students just changed to their second rotation of classes for the first
quarter. Students, families and teachers all continue learning how to navigate the
remote learning together. iPads are being distributed to our youngest students. Every
day we are in a better place, although it is still challenging for some students and
families.
• Safety training for our staff is occurring, following guidelines from local, state and
national officials. Many districts have published dates when they will begin in-person
learning, and some have had to postpone due to the complexities of safety measures.
Many districts across the state and nation have had to move backwards due to an
increase in COVID-19 cases. Whatcom County is in the moderate range for COVID19 cases, and health guidelines would allow us to begin bringing back some students.
Extra caution will be needed due to the approaching flu season.
• Our school nurses, along with the COVID-19 safety team, are working full-time on
safety protocols. They are performing walk-throughs with key staff, finding the

•

•
•

nuances at each building (location of a screening room, determining how many
students each classroom can accommodate, playground layouts, planning for meals,
length of the day). Music and choir classes are problematic, and transportation is also
complicated. All district staff is receiving training on safety protocols and we will
continue moving forward, knowing that things could shift at any time.
We have had child care programs operating in our facilities since March. Recently the
YMCA began a program at Options High School, consisting of a small group of
students who are receiving support while taking remote courses. The internet café
program will start tomorrow at the high schools, beginning with teenage parents and
adding more students in the upcoming weeks. A K-8 Outdoor Education Connections
program ran this past summer (The North Cascades Institute, Wild Whatcom and
other groups have different guidelines than school districts). The next group to begin
in-person learning will be kindergarten and primary Life Skills and BRIDGES
students, followed in a few weeks by first grade and intermediate Life Skills and
BRIDGES students. Preschool will have staggered start dates. There are many
complexities for students to participate in health and fitness activities. Dr. Baker
responded to questions from board members.
Dr. Baker shared the resources/professional development for staff related to COVID19 that is currently on the Human Resources webpage and responded to questions
from board members.
Dr. Baker gave an update on capital projects, including the district office. The District
Office Design Advisory Committee (DAC) has met over the past few months, and he
shared the process that has been followed, as well as some beginning concepts for
design and layout. He asked and received input from board members regarding the
locations of board meetings in the new building. Updates were also given on
construction progress at Parkview, Alderwood, the Bellingham High School field and
the Shuksan Middle School gym. Dr. Baker also noted that tonight’s consent agenda
includes the purchase of property adjacent to Sunnyland Elementary School.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4

Approval of Minutes of the September 16, 2020 Regular Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – September 2020
Resolution 22-20, BSD Non-Represented Employees VEBA Plan for 2020-21
Resolution 23-20, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Approval of Purchase and Sale Agreement
Hire Appraiser for Property Appraisal
2020-21 iGrants 217 Form Package – Highly Capable Program Plan
Approve Adoption of Policy 2418
Bellingham Technical College Running Start Program Agreement (#2021-045)
YMCA Fall 2020 Childcare Partnership Agreement (#2021-048)
YMCA Fall 2020 Youth Institute Facility Agreement (#2021-052)
Everett Community College – College in the High School Agreement (#2021-064)

2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12

2

2.13
2.14

Ferndale School District Intergovernmental Cooperative Purchasing Agreement
(#2021-067)
Personnel Recommendations
Unanimous affirmative vote.

3.0
3.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Rose is happy to hear that the Indigenous Peoples Day/Coast Salish Peoples Day
discussion in her sixth-grade student’s class was not contentious. The students agreed
that the change from Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples Day/Coast Salish Day was
a good one. Participation in the food distribution at Sunnyland has been great for
building community.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler wishes staff the best in accomplishing next steps.
• Ms. Bashaw has been happy to see kids at the Options High School child care, as well
as students participating in driver’s education.
• Mr. Benjamin recently attended the virtual WSSDA regional meeting. Area 1 was
combined with areas 2 and 3, which made it a somewhat urban group. The
conversations in breakout sessions were good. There were some brand new board
members, with others helping to orient them.

3.2

GP-7.2 – 2020-21 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.

4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business (as needed): n/a.

5.0
5.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Diaz Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:27 p.m.

5.2

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

3

