DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 19, 2020

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
February 19, 2020 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw,
Douglas Benjamin (President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose,
Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). He acknowledged that this
meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coastal Salish people.
Audience:
• Kai Turner is the mother to two small children; the first will be entering
kindergarten next fall. She would like to open the conversation regarding a dual
language program in the Bellingham Public Schools and is primarily interested in a
Spanish-English program. She has heard that this is a topic of discussion already and
she would like to help expedite the conversation so the program can become a reality
for her children.
• Sylvia Torres is the parent of two small children and is a native Spanish speaker
from Peru. She is trying to help her children learn Spanish but cannot do it alone and
needs support from the school system. She feels strongly that a dual language
program would enhance and enrich their experiences and capabilities, and research
has shown that it is valuable for young children to have a dual language experience.
• Jennifer Kilmer has a five-year-old who will be starting kindergarten next year, and
she feels that a second language opportunity for her child is important. She believes
it’s not just having the skills of the language, but also the skills that children gain
while going through the process of learning a second language. The limited research
she has seen on the internet shows that native English speakers do well, as do the
native Spanish speakers, and this could help with equity in our community.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker expressed appreciation to the community for the successful levy election
last week.
• Last week Dr. Baker attended the national AASA (American Association of School
Administrators) conference in San Diego, where there was a lot of great recognition
for school districts in the northwest. Highline Public Schools Superintendent Susan
Enfield received the Women in School Leadership Superintendent award, and Eugene
School District 4J Superintendent Gustavo Balderas received the award for National

•

•

Superintendent of the Year. It was fun to see colleagues being recognized and
represent our region well.
A budget update went out to the community today. Dr. Baker met with the state
superintendent two weeks ago, and it is not expected that there will be a significant
increase in K-12 funding by the legislature for next year. There is a long list of items
that would help to improve the services in our district including compensation,
lowering class sizes and social services such as nurses, counselors and mental health
professionals. Special Education is also an ever-growing need. Middle school staff
and principals have been working on what a new schedule would look like, and that
will continue to be on our wish list. Investments in EDI (Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion) and early childhood will remain a priority. Dr. Baker and staff will
continue to monitor news coming out of the legislative session, and the budget will be
refined over the coming weeks.
Dr. Baker recently visited the Highline School District, which currently has nine or
ten dual language schools, and spent some time with a director at an elementary
school there. In theory a dual language program is fabulous; however,
operationalizing can be difficult, as staff need to speak both languages. Most districts
cannot support a program in all schools, and it can cause tension within a district that
not all students are able to access the program. We will continue to learn how this
could be a reality in our district.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the Jan. 29, 2020 School Board Linkage; Jan. 29, 2020
Regular Meeting; and Feb. 4, 2020 School Visit
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – January 2020
EL-4 Monitoring Report: Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Approve Updated Policy 6112 (Rental or Lease of District Real Property) and Policy
4260 (Use of School Facilities)
Interlocal Agreement with Blaine, Ferndale, Meridian and Mt. Baker School
Districts (#1920-126)
Tuition Agreements with Brock’s Academy (#1920-132 and #1920-134)
Agreement for Services – Courageous Educational Service LLC
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Monitoring Report Ends 2.1 (part 2) – Student Competence
Dr. Mike Copland, Deputy Superintendent, and Brian Rick, Director of Research and
Assessment, discussed the report and data set and answered questions from the board.
Mike acknowledged the work that Brian does to pull together the data for this report and
thanked him for that work in addition to the other work that he does.
2

4.0
4.1

4.2

5.0
5.1

5.2
6.0
6.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-3, Treatment and Communication with Public,
Parents and Students
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-3 (Attachment A). Mr. Benjamin will provide a final version of this document which
will be submitted for approval at the March 18, 2020 regular meeting.
Board Response to Monitoring – Ends 2.1, Part 1, Student Competence
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
Ends 2.1, Part 1 (Attachment B). Mr. Benjamin will provide a final version of this
document which will be submitted for approval at the March 18, 2020 regular meeting.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Bashaw shared that she and Ms. Rose recently spent time reviewing information
that is helpful for new board members to know.
• Ms. Mason very much enjoyed the Shuksan school visit. It was a very dynamic
presentation, and she liked the creativity and heard a lot of student voice. It was very
interesting to hear about some of the work being done around EDI. Ms. Mason and
Ms. Diaz Hackler attended the WSSDA legislative conference in Olympia February
8-9 and heard speakers that included state superintendent Chris Reykdahl. They also
met with representative Sharon Shewmake and with the aid for Senator Doug
Erickson. There was good discussion and networking with other districts’ board
members and superintendents.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler shared some of the highlights from the legislative conference.
• Mr. Benjamin acknowledged the work of the Citizen’s Advisory Committee for their
work on the levy election. He recently attended a gala for the League of Women
Voters, and today met with Ms. Mason, Dr. Baker and other district staff to plan the
March 4 student roundtable, which will be at Carl Cozier Elementary.
GP-7.2 – 2019-20 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.
SCHOOL BOARD Study Session
Study Session – Sustainability
The topic of sustainability was identified last summer as a topic for a study session. Dr.
Baker gave a brief overview of the categories of information that would be reviewed, and
a panel of staff members proceeded to update the board on work that is being done in the
district regarding sustainability. Contributing to the presentation were:
•
•
•
•
•

Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations Simone Sangster
Buildings and Grounds Director Mike Anderson
Director of School Safety and Emergency Management Jonah Stinson
Executive Chef and Director of Food Services Patrick Durgan
Director of Wellness Jessica Sankey

Following the presentation, the panel answered questions from the board members.

3

7.0
7.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business:
• Ms. Diaz Hackler is interested in attending the National School Board Association
(NSBA) conference in Chicago April 3-6, 2020.
• Dr. Baker will email details to the board members regarding the upcoming retreat
(Feb. 28-29) at North Cascades Institute.

8.0
8.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Diaz Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 8:08 p.m.

8.2

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

