DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 13, 2020

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
May 13, 2020, 2020 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. He acknowledged that this
meeting, while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands
of the Coastal Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin
(President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker
and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Mr. Benjamin noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19,
public participation is limited to written submissions only. Any written comments
received will be shared with the school board directors.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• The district is continuing to operate under the unique circumstances of Covid-19. Dr.
Baker has begun meeting with each school’s staff at their virtual staff meetings. Last
week’s virtual conversation with the community was positive and well-received. He
expects to hold another, but it has not yet been scheduled.
• Safety of students and staff continues to be the first priority, and staff and students
remain at home, except for those staff members with essential functions. Some
members of the community continue to express concern regarding the presence of the
Lighthouse Mission at Bellingham High School. The rumors about millions of dollars
of damage are false. Other community members have expressed appreciation for
helping this vulnerable population. The facility agreement has an end date of August
1, although they may be transitioning to another location sooner than that.
• The provision of food and child care continue to go well. The Central Kitchen and
food services staff are doing a great job. The district has partnered with the YMCA
for child care, and today Dr. Baker visited the child care site at Parkview. Staff there
are continuing with temperature checks, health questionnaires and social distancing
and staff are wearing masks. These procedures could be used when students return to
school.
• The grading policy for high school was announced. This was a large body of work,
and we feel good with where we landed. It has been well received with people
recognizing that it’s not a perfect answer nor is it a long-term solution, but the good
news is that our grading guidance has meant more engagement for some students and

•

•

•

•

•
•

less stress. Middle school and elementary school grading and report cards are being
discussed; guidance will go out to staff soon. The goal is to keep kids engaged
without a big assessment at the end of the school year.
Professional development with a wellness focus has been offered to all staff, and 385
individuals have enrolled in 24 classes that staff has put together for their colleagues.
The classes range from online First Aid/CPR certification; to Darkness to Light,
which addresses breaking the cycle of child abuse; and using yoga skills in the
classroom to address trauma and resilience. There are also some fun classes for
connection and health, such as Zumba, mindfulness, martial arts and mid-day yoga.
We continue the work to ensure every district family has access to technology and
WiFi and have contracted with Comcast to help pay for services for families who
have barriers. The family engagement team has helped with this effort, and the
number of families without technology and WiFi access is down from over 300 to
around 70.
Messaging regarding graduation went out today. Following guidance from the state
superintendent and the governor, we are confident that we will not be able to hold
ceremonies indoors or outdoors. Dr. Baker noted that the Spokane School District has
been informed by the governor that an outdoor stadium ceremony will not be allowed.
Our team has put together a plan that puts safety first. If things change that could
influence our thinking, we will adjust. We are thinking of it as a weeklong celebration
rather than one ceremony, and a virtual ceremony is being planned for students and
their families to watch.
We are still planning to bring a proposed 2020-21 budget to the board at next month’s
regular meeting. There are still a lot of questions about what will happen long term
with the budget. We will go into next school year hoping that the legislature does not
change its budget mid-year. It is possible that we will see changes in the next biennial
budget that could cause reductions, so we will continue to be conservative where we
can. A year or two ago we went through the process of preparing for significant cuts,
and the information we learned during that exercise will help to guide us if we get to
that point.
As an update to Special Education: Director of Teaching and Learning Mike
Haberman, who was planning to reduce his role for 2020-21, will now stay on as
director. Other supports in Special Education will also be put into place.
As we wind down the 2019-20 school year, our energy will turn towards 2020-21.
The dynamics are changing fast, and we have been reading guidance from the Centers
for Disease Control (CDC) and other agencies. The state superintendent has formed a
task force with over 100 people from around the state to give the governor guidance
towards the end of June. The state superintendent has asked that we not make any
decisions about next year until that guidance comes out. That guidance likely will be
similar to the guidance on grading, in that there will be some parameters but also
some flexibility. Possible models could include students being divided into morning
and afternoon sessions; secondary students continuing with online learning; students
alternating weekly or every two weeks, etc. It is a challenge, and when we closed
schools on March 13 and had less than a week to flip our model, we did it. It will be a
challenging summer as we make plans for next school year.

2

Dr. Baker was asked by a board member about capital projects, and he shared that all
building projects are on schedule at this time.
He was also asked about the annual staff retirement celebration. Instead of the dinner and
celebration that has occurred in past years, we will be honoring our retirees in other ways.
We hope to them all together at some point next year, perhaps with the 2020-21 group of
retirees, or with a celebration for each group.
2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8

Approval of Minutes of the April 22, 2020 Regular Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – April 2020
Resolution 6-20, Emergency Waiver of School Days and Instructional Hours
Approve Alderwood Elementary School Value Engineering Study
Approve Parkview Elementary School Value Engineering Study
Authorization to Call for Bids – Parkview Elementary School
Annual Affirmative Action Progress Report
Facility Agreements with Lighthouse Mission Ministries (#1920-154A), Whatcom
County (#1920-156 & #1920-156A) and Whatcom Family YMCA (#1920-155)
Washington Reading Corps Agreement (#1920-157)
Comcast Cable Communications Management Agreement (#1920-159)
Whatcom Detention Center Education Program Interlocal Cooperative Agreement
(#2021-001)
Personnel Recommendations

2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Diaz Hackler shared that she has nothing to report but wants to thank Dr. Baker
and his team for all that they are doing. She has heard from friends who have schoolaged children how difficult it is, and she appreciates the tough decisions that Dr.
Baker and his team have had to make. It is a tough time for everyone.
• Ms. Bashaw noted that she also has heard positive feedback from people who have
students in the district. She thanked Dr. Baker and the Executive Team, who are all
working to do the best for students and families.
• Ms. Mason appreciated the Promise award video and last week’s virtual conversation
with Dr. Baker. The communications team made the video very special, and she
knows there was a lot of work behind the scenes to put that together and recognize
staff. She also applauded the network services team for their support of the district
during this unprecedented time.
• Ms. Rose agrees that the technology and support has been great. She has heard from
other parents about their experiences with remote school and how they feel supported.
She appreciated today’s messaging regarding graduation, and she looks forward to
3

•

seeing how that goes. She is hoping there will be ways for the community to be
involved and agrees that people are experiencing grief due to missing traditional
events at the end of the school year.
Mr. Benjamin appreciates the comments that have already been made. He shared that
he has been focused on what school will look like in the fall and has done a lot of
reading and watching on that topic. It will not be business as usual, and there are
many unknown factors at this time. Although he knows members of the executive
team are viewing the meeting, he misses seeing their faces at the in-person meetings
and acknowledged that the work they have been and continue to do is appreciated.

4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business:
• Mr. Benjamin stated that he will be in contact with individual board members to
gather input for Dr. Baker’s superintendent evaluation.

5.0
5.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Diaz Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable ).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:42 p.m.

5.2

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

