DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 17, 2020

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
June 17, 2020, 2020 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:13 p.m. He acknowledged that this
meeting, while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands
of the Coastal Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin
(President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker
and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Mr. Benjamin noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19,
public participation is limited to written submissions only. Any written comments
received will be shared with the school board directors.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Tomorrow is the last official day of the school year. This week has been filled with
school celebrations (mostly virtual), pickup of supplies, etc.
• Individual graduations for our four high schools were broadcast on June 12, 2020.
Many people worked to make the graduation season a special event for seniors, and
feedback has been overwhelmingly appreciative and positive. Families commented
that they enjoyed being able to watch the ceremony with no tickets needed and can
now watch it at any time.
• The Lighthouse Mission will be vacating Bellingham High School and moving into
another facility in mid-July. At the Bellingham City Council meeting last night, the
district was acknowledged for helping our community by providing a safe place for
some of the city’s most vulnerable population. Dr. Baker noted that clients of the
Lighthouse Mission helped to clean up the area in front of the school prior to a
diploma pick up event.
• There is a lot going on around the country relating to the fight against racism. One
tension felt within the district is the creation of an ethnic studies course, which will be
an elective high school social studies class. We will continue to look at all courses at
all grade levels to identify where the history of racism is discussed.
• Another tension in the district and around the country is the presence of law
enforcement in schools. Staff are currently seeking to understand the concerns and
any benefits prior to moving forward with a decision. There has been a strong theme
across the nation for years that schools should be a safe place. We have held meetings

•
•

•

with staff who want to do what is right for students of color. Today Dr. Baker met
with a group of middle and high school students of color to hear their perspectives on
this issue. Our district has one resource officer who supports our 23 schools, as well
as staff who serve as campus monitors at our secondary schools. The sight of a police
officer can cause anxiety and fear for some students, and we do not want students to
feel that way unnecessarily. If the goal of the position is to build relationships, having
one officer does not suffice. Students are more likely to form relationships with the
campus monitors. In addition, our first responder lunches were well-intentioned, but
we have heard from some staff that they would prefer to not have that occur within
the school day. First responders are valued members of our community and some
have connections with our schools as parents or are former students. We want to be
careful about how we communicate with them regarding their value in our
community. Board members agreed that this is a complex issue and that taking time
to listen to different perspectives is important. Dr. Baker noted that, as with any
significant change, when we arrive at a decision there will be some who will be upset,
but staff will have authentically listened to everyone.
Staff is working on professional development on the topic of racism and will also
offer some opportunities to parents.
The draft budget has been created, and Dr, Baker acknowledged Assistant
Superintendent of Finance Simone Sangster and her team for their work on the
proposed budget. The budget is a year-round process, and there are no new
announcements in this budget. Part of the budget process is to formally share the
entire budget with the board and then bring it forward for a vote at our next regular
meeting. Dr. Baker shared some of the highlights and noted that a conservative
approach was taken going into next year, in the event that the legislature makes
changes to this year’s state budget.
Last week the state superintendent released his guidance for reopening schools for
2020-21. Dr. Baker participated in a Zoom meeting with the state superintendent
today where that guidance was further discussed. The assumption at this point is that
we will be opening for the beginning of the 2020-21 school year. Key factors to
consider include how to screen students and staff each day; hygiene and being sure
everyone is washing their hands; physical distancing of six feet as much as possible;
face coverings; cohorts and how we group students and adults to lessen interaction
throughout the day; and the continuous cleaning of facilities. Even though the plan is
to re-open at the beginning of the school year, we must also have a remote learning
plan that we can turn to at any point in time. Any remote learning will be more
engaging than it has been over these past three months. An advisory group has been
formed and will begin meeting next week, and there will be multiple workgroups
formed to help inform and advise that group. It will be a herculean task to say the
least.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Diaz Hackler made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2

Approval of Minutes of the May 13, 2020 Regular Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – May 2020
2

2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19
2.20
2.21
2.22

Resolution 7-20, Delegation of Authority to WIAA
Resolution 9-20, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Resolution 10-20, Intent to Construct Alderwood Elementary School
Resolution 11-20, Intent to Construct Parkview Elementary School
Wetland Conservation Easement to City of Bellingham
Award of Bid for Alderwood Elementary School Rebuild
Approval to Enter into Contract with Coast to Coast Turf
Constructability Review Report, Alderwood Elementary School
Constructability Review Report, Parkview Elementary School
Annual Report on Asset Preservation Program
WWU Subrecipient Agreement/Professional Educator Standards Board (#1920-162)
Whatcom Family YMCA Summer Childcare Partnership Agreement (#1920-164)
Vamos Outdoors Project Agreement for Services (#1920-165)
Gym Star Sports Center (#2021-003)
Whatcom County Behavioral Health Services Contract (#2021-005)
Bureau of Internet Accessibility Services Agreement (#2021-006)
Piper Sandler & Co. Agreement (#2021-007)
Alternatives to Hunger dba Bellingham Food Bank Facility Use Agreement (#2021011)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contract
Unanimous affirmative vote.

3.0
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Review Governance Process Policies GP-1 through GP-6
Governance Process Policies GP-1 through GP-6 are reviewed annually. There were no
recommended changes suggested to the policies at this time.

4.0
4.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Rose has been impressed with the engagement and deep and thoughtful
conversations at the elementary level regarding Black Lives Matter. If there is a need
to increase counseling, she wonders where that funding will come from. From a
parent perspective, she is excited for the end of the school year.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler shared that she would like to see more people of color running for
the school board, serving on committees, involved with PTAs and PTOs and
volunteering in the schools. She thanked staff for the work involved to put together
the graduation ceremonies.
• Ms. Mason noted that she continues to be impressed with the teachers and
paraprofessionals who have been engaged with students and have helped to keep
families engaged. She is hearing more from community members regarding social
justice. She shared that, while policy governance is great for student outcomes and
long-term vision, it can give the impression that the board does not appear to be
making decisions.
3

•

4.2

Ms. Bashaw noted that she continues to appreciate the thoughtfulness of Dr. Baker
when there are areas of tension.
• Mr. Benjamin asked a trivia question regarding when the district’s first school levy
election was held.
GP-7.2 – 2019-20 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.

5.0
5.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business:
• Mr. Benjamin previously emailed an annual summative evaluation of the
superintendent to board members. He pointed out that this has been an atypical year
and the board had suspended some of this year’s monitoring reports. The policy
governance model does not have a mechanism for the board to weigh in on the
unprecedented events that have taken place over the past few months. The summative
evaluation contains comments from the board members with respect to those events,
and there was discussion regarding the document. All agreed that the comments
should be included in the summative evaluation. Ms. Diaz Hackler made a motion
that the added comments should not include board members’ initials. Unanimous
affirmative vote.

6.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:35 p.m.

6.2

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

