DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING/PUBLIC HEARING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 15, 2020

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
July 15, 2020 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw,
Douglas Benjamin (President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose,
Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Mr. Benjamin noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19,
public participation is limited to written submissions only. Any written comments
received will be shared with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all
messages received. Those messages have focused on the topics of police presence in our
schools and what will occur this fall regarding the opening of the 2020-21 school year.
He noted that Dr. Baker and his team are working tirelessly, and updates will be given on
these topics this evening. Police presence in schools is not a new issue, and the district
has worked to reduce the number of district resource officers to one while increasing
mental health professionals. Mr. Benjamin recalls that it was not long ago that there were
community requests to increase the police presence in reaction to increased school
shootings across the country. In 2018 the board passed a resolution to declare support for
student safety. He also noted that the school board operates under a policy governance
model, which means the board sets out the outcomes that are expected and leaves the
means to achieve those outcomes up to the superintendent. Last year the board passed a
new policy on race and equity, Executive Limitation 10. This policy was because of
numerous discussions and work with staff; it led to the board receiving a statewide award
for its work on race and equity. The board cares deeply about equity because the
community cares about it, and he shared that valuable feedback and information have
been received by the board over the last few weeks.
Public Hearing on Adoption of the 2020-21 Bellingham School District Budget
Mr. Benjamin explained the purpose of the public hearing, which is to provide an
opportunity for anyone who would like to speak for or against the adoption of the 202021 budget to comment before the board takes action on the budget later this evening. No
audience presented, and no public testimony was offered relating to the proposed budget
adoption.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker shared that this is the last week that the Lighthouse Mission will be
occupying Bellingham High School. The school will receive a thorough cleaning and

•

•

some painting once the Lighthouse Mission has moved out. It has been a big
endeavor for our district and community. He shared that he feels pride that the
district, with support of the board, took a request from the mayor to help some of our
community’s most vulnerable residents. He thanked the staff at Bellingham High
School and others in the district who worked hard in order for that to occur.
The creation of the budget is a yearlong process, and the board will be asked to
approve the draft 2020-21 budget in tonight’s consent agenda. In a meeting with the
state superintendent yesterday, districts were advised that, given what is known now,
they should plan for the 2020-21 school year as if the legislature is continuing to
provide funding for basic education. Our district is operating in that way, while being
cautious about spending. The legislature may convene mid-year to reduce budgets
and funding for things that are not defined as basic education, and we believe our
fund balance puts us in a good position this year. Advice from the state
superintendent is that the next biennium budget will likely be reduced. CARES Act
funds have flowed through to the state and should be flowing through to districts,
although the state may choose to use those funds at the state level. We are planning to
use it for personal protective equipment (PPE) and for staff work over the summer in
response to the pandemic. Dr. Baker responded to questions regarding the budget
from board members.
For the past six weeks, Dr. Baker and his team have worked to be good listeners on
the topic of police presence in schools. It is clear there are many different
perspectives. Some feel that to be an equity warrior, there should be no police in
schools; however, it is more complex than that. He expects that people will react
differently when a decision has been made on this topic. Some will say they
appreciate they were listened to, that staff was thoughtful, and even though the
decision wasn’t what they wanted they know that the issues were genuinely explored.
This is not a new topic. This district has engaged deeply in how to reduce
suspensions, expulsions and arrests and acknowledges that historically some groups
have been over-represented in discipline and punishment. Principals and school
counselors have worked hard to restore harm and help students learn, and law
enforcement has been a partner in that work. With the national context and a
community who has advocated hard, we have been pushed to think more deeply about
it. Dr. Baker and other staff have met with students, students of color, staff, parents,
law enforcement and higher education professors who are in the field of researching
the history of policing in this country. More information will be sent out soon. It’s
important to understand the history of policing, and we will continue to educate
students, staff and parents on that history. Dr. Baker also spent a lot of time listening
to national experts on law enforcement and race, including leaders in law
enforcement and its effect on different ethnicities. It’s a necessary institution that
should always be evolving as we learn. Our district has made a conscious effort to
increase counseling support, homeless coordinators, drug and alcohol counselors and
other mental health professionals over the past several years. The term “defunding the
police” refers to using current funds to increase other supports, not necessarily cutting
all police services. As a state and country, we have a lot of work to do, but we are
proud of the work that has been done here. With regard to the first responders meal
program, that can be put on hiatus for now. The district does not require a lot of
2

•
•

2.0

security at events, but we will continue to look at that. Right now, the district does not
think we will be eliminating our district resource officer. While all of us likely have a
heightened anxiety when law enforcement is present, in talking with police, it may be
that we can lessen that feeling while still having police support when needed. There
may be a perception that the officer is there to arrest students, but much of the work
of the officer is in support of our students, some who have been the victim of a crime.
The district resource officer has been specifically trained and knows our protocols.
The reality is that there are times when a police officer is needed, including when a
student has been the victim of a crime. At other times, our students have committed a
crime. Our protocol needs to include ways of decreasing the number of times we call
the resource officer, and we will continue to refine that process. Dr. Baker will refine
a message to the community that details where we are and hopes that the community
will support us in continuing to learn and adjust. Board members commented on this
topic, and Dr. Baker noted that, in the end, we all care about our students and want
them to be safe.
Dr. Baker shared photos of the baseball, softball and soccer/rugby fields at Squalicum
High School, which are nearing completion.
On the topic of the pandemic, Dr. Baker noted that he will be sending an update out
to the community soon. Some districts across the nation and world are sharing out
their plans for next year, while some have postponed reopening for two to three
weeks. Our state superintendent has directed that districts plan to open in the fall,
abiding by the Department of Health regulations, which includes six feet of distance
between students and staff. We also are also mandated to make plans and be prepared
in case closures are needed. Each week the context is changing. Two weeks ago, there
was a report from the American Association of Pediatrics that stressed the importance
of students returning to school, which led to an increase in the hope that we might be
back in the school buildings. Last week we heard the President and Secretary of
Education make comments about opening schools that caused educators across the
country to feel some pressure about a lack of safety in the workplace/our schools. We
are working with labor leaders on how to keep everyone safe. There are intensified
discussions about whether schools should open across the country. Having met this
week with area and state superintendents, many are feeling less hopeful that we will
be opening our school facilities in the fall. Many districts are coming out to say they
will not be offering a hybrid model and will be online only. We are continuing to plan
what our options are. Dr. Baker understands that people want to know the answer,
and at some point, we will put out information about current thinking. We are
fortunate to not be starting until Sept. 2. The expectation is that students will be
learning, either in school or remotely. Dr. Baker introduced Executive Director of
Operations Jessica Sankey and Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Kristi
Dominguez, who gave a high-level overview of the work that the Reopening Schools
Advisory Committee is engaged in, as well as who is serving on that committee.
There were comments and questions from board members.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Bashaw made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items:

3

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16

Approval of Minutes of the June 17, 2020 Regular Meeting and June 24, 2020
Special Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – June 2020
Resolution 8-20, Acceptance of Sehome Fields Project
Resolution 12-20, Parkview Modernization of Existing Gym
Resolution 13-20, Adoption of 2020-21 Budget
Resolution 14-20, Amendment to Resolution 25-17
Resolution 15-20, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Award of Bid for Parkview Elementary School Rebuild
YMCA – Summer Programming at Options High School (#1920-167)
AVID Center Products and Services Quote/Order for 2020-21 (#2021-012)
Xiologix Renewals (#2021-017, #2021-018)
Lithtex and Jostens Agreements for Services (#2021-019, #2021-020, #2021-021)
Ednetics, Inc. Service Agreement (#2021-023)
ESD 112 Interlocal Purchasing Agreement (#2021-027)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.

3.0
3.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Mason expressed appreciation for the community members who have contacted
the board with their perspectives on reopening schools and police presence in the
schools. We are lucky to live in a community that cares this much for our students
and equity for students. She also thanked Dr. Baker and his team for moving so
intentionally through the process police in schools. She appreciates the time that has
been taken to listen, research and reach out for input from others.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler noted that it is important for everyone to contact legislators to
advocate that more counselors and social workers be funded by the state. All elections
are important, including school board elections, and she would like to see more
school board members of color.
• Ms. Rose expressed gratitude to Dr. Baker for having difficult conversations and the
executive team for the work they are doing to get students back to school safely. Kids
have been through a lot, and the level of care that is being taken for students and staff
is appreciated. The questions are challenging, but the engagement and involvement is
encouraging.
• Mr. Benjamin shared that he has spent a considerable amount of time carefully
reading the emails that have been received. We do hear you, and as board members it
is very important that we hear from you. You guide our work in terms of oversight.
He noted that Assistant Superintendent of Finance Simone Sangster and her team
have put together a budget that is remarkable. Our district’s budget process won a
state award a couple of years ago, and we appreciate the work that was done again
this year with the budget process.

4

4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business (as needed): n/a.

5.0
5.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:47 p.m.

5.2

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

5

