DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
January 29, 2020

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
January 29, 2020 – 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, Washington.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:46 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw,
Douglas Benjamin (President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose,
Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). He acknowledged that this
meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coastal Salish people.
Audience:
n/a
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker welcomed everyone to Options High School and noted that January is
school board recognition month. The board of directors were each presented with a
box of apple rose tarts that were made with love by our Central Kitchen, and the
Bellingham High School Showstoppers singing group then performed two songs
(You Will Reap What You Sow and Imagine). Dr. Baker thanked the school board for
the important work that they do.
• Dr. Baker thanked everyone who played a part in making it possible to hold tonight’s
meetings at Options High School rather than the district office.
• He acknowledged that there have been some significant events in our school district
since the last meeting, which included the loss of a staff member in December. Dr.
Baker thanked the board for the support provided to him as he tried to support the
students, staff and families following that tragic loss. He also recognized the support
from the district’s mobile response team, executive team and Sunnyland staff.
• School was in session for one week after winter break and then western Washington
was hit with a snow event. Dr. Baker appreciated the support from board members
and staff as decisions were being made regarding the safety of students and staff.
Over 1,300 meals were served and delivered on Jan.16 and 17, and families were very
appreciative. The dates for finals and the semester break have been adjusted, and
graduations will be moved to the following weekend. Every attempt will be made to
not conflict with college/university ceremonies, which may result in the times for our
graduations being adjusted from what they have typically been in past years. The last
day of school will be extended into the week of June 15, but because it is only
January there is still a possibility for more snow days.

•

•
•

•
•

The legislature is in session, and the state superintendent has just released his
proposed budget ideas, which includes some substantial changes from past years. Dr.
Baker stated he is not sure how the legislature will react to the suggested changes, but
he and staff will closely follow the legislative session.
The attendance areas recommendation has been fine-tuned and more information will
be coming out soon. Families who will be experiencing a change in their children’s
school(s) will receive a notification via email and U.S. Mail.
Today marks day two of Promise K for 109 students in seven classrooms across the
district, which is the largest group to date, and it is going exceptionally well. This is
the seventh year of Promise K in our district, and this week there are several districts
across the state that are offering the program for the first time. Approximately 500
students across the state can get a jump start on kindergarten because of Promise K.
The election for the two replacement levies is Feb. 11, just two weeks away. Staff and
the citizens committee have been working to educate the public.
Dr. Baker will be traveling to San Diego in February to represent the school district
and Washington state at the American Association of School Administrators (AASA)
conference.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Diaz Hackler made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the Dec. 11, 2019 Regular Meeting and Dec. 11, 2019 Special
Meeting
Approval of Payroll – November 2019 (updated)
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – December 2019
Resolution 1-20, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
EL-3 Monitoring Report: Treatment and Communication with Public, Parents and
Students
Northwest Educational Service District 189 Highly Capable Program Cooperative
Agreement (#1920-119)
Ferndale Interlocal Boys Swim (#1920-122)
Anthony Craig Agreement for Services
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Monitoring Report Ends 2.1 (part 1) – Student Competence
Dr. Mike Copland, Deputy Superintendent, and Brian Rick, Director of Research and
Assessment, discussed the report and data set and answered questions from the board.
Mike acknowledged the work that Brian does to pull together the data for this report and
thanked him for that work.

2

3.2

Review and Discuss Possible Revisions to GPs 1-6
Governance Process Policies GP-1 through GP-6 are reviewed annually in January. After
discussion, it was agreed that no changes are needed at this time.

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-1 report
that was prepared by Ms. Diaz Hackler. Following the discussion, Ms. Mason made a
motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to approve the monitoring response document
(Attachment A). Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-5, Communication and Counsel to the Board
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses prepared by Ms.
Diaz Hackler to the EL-5 report. Following the discussion, Ms. Bashaw made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment B).
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses prepared by Mr.
Benjamin to the EL-7 report. Following the discussion, Ms. Diaz Hackler made a
motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the monitoring response document
(Attachment C). Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses prepared by Mr.
Benjamin to the EL-9 report. Following the discussion, Ms. Bashaw made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment D).
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-10, Race and Equity
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses prepared by Ms.
Diaz Hackler to the EL-10 report. The discussion was focused on how to document the
board’s decision when there are differing opinions by individual board members
regarding the superintendent’s compliance with the policy. Following discussion, Ms.
Diaz Hackler made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to make an exception for this
particular monitoring response and allow for two findings, and to add an agenda item for
the board’s next retreat to discuss whether the board members need to be unanimous in
their finding, as well as possible edits to the EL-10 policy. The monitoring response
document is attached (Attachment E). Unanimous affirmative vote.

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Diaz Hackler shared that she was recently involved a discussion out in the
community regarding public pools and the possibility of a partnership between the
Arne Hanna Aquatic Center and the school district. She also had occasion to be in
Albany and Salem, Oregon with family and visited pool facilities in those
communities. The Salem pool complex consists of a community center, a day care
facility, public meeting rooms, a gym and two large swimming pools. She is hoping
for a robust conversation between the Bellingham community and the district
regarding the future of pools here.
3

•

5.2

Ms. Mason was very impressed with this evening’s linkage focused on exceptional
students. The students were very articulate, and it was great to hear the students’
experiences and powerful to learn the value to students of having school staff who are
reflective of them. She and Ms. Diaz Hackler will be attending the legislative
conference in Olympia Feb. 8-10.
• Ms. Rose agreed that the linkage was very valuable. Comments that resonated with
her included how the students value their connections and are able to realize their
passions. She noted that students have access to opportunities in school that they may
not be able to experience at home. As the parent of students at Sunnyland, she shared
that the past several weeks have been very difficult. She cannot say enough about the
staff and administration for their professionalism and the love felt throughout the
school after the community’s tremendous loss.
• Ms. Bashaw attended the first “Think BIG Student Club Challenge” sponsored by the
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation on Jan. 13, and she hopes that it will continue
as an annual event. She volunteered in the lunchroom at Cordata for the first day of
Promise K yesterday and remembered to bring scissors to help the students open their
yogurt. It was great to see so many people helping and supporting the students on
their first day of school. She also thanked Dr. Baker, the Bellingham Showstoppers,
the Central Kitchen and others for the appreciation shown to the school board this
evening.
• Mr. Benjamin was very pleased with the linkage and thought it was a great example
of the importance of student voice. One student at his table commented that there
should be more information shared about The Bellingham Promise in classrooms.
GP-7.2 – 2019-20 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business:
• Mr. Benjamin noted that there are two days set aside on calendars in February for the
board’s winter retreat. He asked if there is interest in holding the retreat at the North
Cascades Institute (NCI), or if it would be preferable to meet locally on Saturday
only. After discussion, it was decided that Dr. Baker will move forward with
reserving space at NCI for Feb. 28 and 29 and be in touch regarding the details.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Mason assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:58 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President

4

Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

5

