December 12, 2017
School Board – Special Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:31 P.M. Board members in attendance were Brian Johnson, Steve Jilk, Kevin Burke,
and Kelli Kettels. Student Directors Rubia Orellana and Leslie Strandgard were absent and excused.
2. Open Public Meeting
The Lynden School District Board of Directors invited community members to address their concerns about the
surplus of the Glenning Street property.
3. Information from the Audience
Brian Johnson invited the audience to speak to the Board on the topic of School District surplus property.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Clinton Jameson expressed his desire to see the property remain an open space for the community.
Andrew Theodore spoke about concerns on infrastructure if construction were to take place on the property.
He would like the Board to explore the use of property for learning opportunities for kids.
Paul Harris thanked the Board for continuing this conversation and shared his concerns about traffic if the
property were to become a residential area. He considers the space an asset for the neighborhood and
community because of the lack of parks in Lynden.
Alyce Werkema addressed the Board and audience to consider the positive impact of both options in leaving
the property as open space and the consideration of building affordable housing on the property. Alyce asked
that the community prioritize the common good.
Harlan Kredit thanked the Board for the opportunity to discuss the topic of surplus property. Harlan described
his work with parks & recreation and asked the Board to reflect on the future and the potential recreational
needs. Harlan asked if the Board would consider a committee for alternative plans for the property.
Karen Rast expressed her interest in making education and recreation work together. Karen conveyed her
concern of the reliability of repurposing the old middle school.
Karen Steensma who is on the Berthusen Park Committee would like to see a committee formed to investigate
further options to keep the property as open space or turned into a park.
Hendor Rodriguez addressed affordable housing for single family homes to be built on the property and likes
to see that the Board is being fiscally responsible.
Sean Withrow thanked the Board for their responsiveness to the community and its diversity of
recommendations, needs and desires for public or private use of the property.
Gary Clark reflected on memories of enjoyment from having a park in the neighborhood. He is concerned
where people in the community would gather if the property were to be developed.
Molly Greenwood shared her ideas for utilizing the space for activities such as gardening and for educational
purposes, but maintain the area as public access. She has concerns and recommendations to get kids active
on the property and how to raise funds to be sustainable.

The Board thanked the audience for their communication of concerns and explained the Boards responsibilities
of serving the education needs of our students. Brian Johnson shared the restrictions and the mission of the School
District and also reminded of the message delivered to the community in support of the Bond. The Board discussed
their willingness to support private or other entity interest in obtaining and maintaining the surplus of the land.

The audience and the Board discussed optional considerations for the use of the property.
4. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:05 P.M.
P.M.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

