1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
December 15, 2016
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
December 15, 2016 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call
Board President Camille Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson,
Steven Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Annual Organizational Meeting
 Board President:
Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Peterson, to nominate Mr. Benjamin as
board president, and Mr. Benjamin agreed to serve in this capacity for the coming
year. Unanimous affirmative vote.
 Board Vice President:
Dr. Smith made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to nominate Ms. Bashaw
as board vice president, and Ms. Bashaw agreed to serve in this capacity for the
coming year. Motion passed with majority vote.
 Legislative Representative:
o At the December 2015 regular meeting, Ms. Diaz Hackler accepted the position of
legislative representative, effective through December 2016.
o In August 2016, 1225 Policy – School Director Legislative Program was revised
to include the following verbiage:
WSSDA Legislative Representative
…The legislative representative will assume office July 1 in an even year for a
two-year period…
o At tonight’s meeting, the board agreed that Ms. Diaz Hackler would continue to
serve as legislative representative through June 2017.
o At the June 22, 2017 regular board meeting, the agenda will include the
appointment of a legislative representative for the ensuing year (July 1, 2017
through June 30, 2018.)
o At the June 2018 regular board meeting, in accordance with Policy 1225, the
board will appoint a legislative representative for a two-year term (July 1, 2018
through June 30, 2020).
 Outgoing Board President:
Mr. Benjamin presented Ms. Diaz Hackler with flowers and thanked her on behalf of
the board for serving as board president in 2016.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
Dec. 15, 2016

1.4
1.5

1.6

Audience: no audience members were present.
Public Hearing: The public hearing allowed members of the public to speak for or
against the adoption of Resolution 26-16 (Item 2.5 of the consent agenda) in connection
with a requested increase to the 2016-17 Transportation Vehicle Fund appropriation
amount. No members of the public were present for this public hearing.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report:
 Sehome High School Update: Sehome High School Principal Michelle Kuss-Cybula
and Executive Director, Capital Projects and School Facilities Ron Cowan shared a
schematic design, discussed modifications to the project’s original site plan and floor
plans, and answered questions from the board.
 Snow Days: Dr. Baker expressed thanks to members of the leadership team involved
in the process that resulted in the decisions to close schools on Dec. 12 and 13
because of inclement weather.
 4x8 Schedule/Anchor Classes: Some parents have raised questions relating to the
new high school schedule and have asked that support time for students not be
eliminated from the schedule. Dr. Baker said no final decisions relating to support
time have been made, and conversations will continue with parents, students, and
staff. Additionally, recommendations from the High School Schedule Implementation
Advisory Group will help inform final decisions relating to support time.
 Project Free Education: The leadership team continues to focus on this initiative,
which began in 2011. One challenge is that hidden costs (for example, cleaning fees
for uniforms) continue to be uncovered. Ongoing analysis will help answer questions
relating to what fees should be funded by the district, what should be covered by the
Associated Student Body (ASB) organizations, and when outside fundraising is
appropriate.
 Advance Placement (AP) testing fees: The federal government is changing the
process that has been in place since 1998 to help low-income students offset the cost
of AP exams; as a result, a gap in funding for this purpose will exist in 2017. In
coming months, the leadership team will look at ways to address this shortfall.
 Aligning Advanced Courses in High School Task Force: One of the objectives of
this group is to evaluate advanced courses such as College in the High School and
Running Start and to analyze how equitable and accessible they are to our students
across the district. The group is also focusing on ways to increase awareness among
students and families on types of programs offered, how to enroll, and what financial
support is available. The task force will submit its recommendations to Dr. Baker in
March 2017.
 Education Funding:
o Governor Inslee’s budget proposal includes options to fully fund education.
This is a first step; districts across the state are waiting for more details.
o A Rally for Student Civil Rights and Amply Funded Public Schools, sponsored
by the Washington Education Association, is scheduled for Jan. 16, 2017 from
10:30 – 11:30 a.m. at the State Capitol. The board discussed options for
involvement in state budget decision-making, including attending the rally,
phoning or writing legislators, and submitting op-eds to newspapers. Ms.

2

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
Dec. 15, 2016






Diaz Hackler suggested that the board consider partnering with Ferndale or
other school districts in these efforts.
Congressman’s Visit: Congressman Rick Larsen joined Dr. Baker today for a visit
that included an observation of one of Paul Clement’s classes at Bellingham High
School. While in Bellingham, Congressman Larsen engaged with students, staff and
administrators on a variety of topics, including STEM, early childhood education, and
project-free education.
Board Recognition: For the second time, the board has been recognized as a Board
of Distinction by the Washington State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA). The
board previously received this recognition in 2014.
GFOA Award: The district has received the Government Finance Officers
Association (GFOA) Distinguished Budget Presentation Award. Dr. Baker said this
award reflects the efforts of those who worked on the 2015-16 budget, including
Assistant Superintendent Simone Sangster, Director of Business Services Kathryn
Weilage, Executive Director Ron Cowan, Executive Director Tanya Rowe, as well as
their respective teams.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Peterson asked the board to consider revisions to Policy 4200 (Consent Agenda Item
2.18) before voting on the consent agenda. Following discussion, it was agreed that this
item would be pulled from the consent agenda so Dr. Baker and his administrative team
could consider proposed edits. Dr. Smith then made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw,
to approve the following consent agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.

2.1

Approval of Minutes of Oct. 26, 2016 Special Meeting (Linkage); Nov. 3, 2016
Regular Meeting; and Nov. 17, 2016 Special Meeting.
Approval of Investments, November 2016
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, November 2016
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, September 2016 (revised)
Resolution 26-16 Budget Extension – Transportation Vehicle Fund
Resolution 27-16, Approval of Sehome High School Educational Specifications
Resolution 28-16, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Grant Easement to Cascade Natural Gas for Relocation of 2” Natural Gas Pipeline
Language Exchange Agreement for Services (#1617-061)
YMCA Swimming Pool Contract (#1617-077)
Student Tracker for High Schools Agreement (#1617-089)
Senden Center Agreement for Services (#1617-089)
Purchase of Buses
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Monitoring Report EL-3, Treatment & Communication w/Public, Parents and
Students
Monitoring Report EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17

3

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
Dec. 15, 2016

3.0
3.1

3.2

4.0
4.1

4.2

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Review GP-5 through GP-6.1 and GP-8 through GP-12: These items are part of a
broader sub-committee review and are included on the agenda to be consistent with the
previously approved GP-7.1, Annual Board Agenda. The board agreed to review and vote
on proposed revisions to these policies at a later date.
Monitoring Report Ends 2.1 (part 1) Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland and
Director of Research and Assessment Brian Rick presented a PowerPoint highlighting
information in the monitoring report and data set. Feedback from the board included the
following comments/questions:
o How are comparable districts determined and should the compilation be revised?
In addition to measuring percentage of students receiving free and reduced lunch,
other indicators might be considered when compiling this list, such as median
income or dollars spent annually per student.
o Consider looking at Olympia, since it is a district that is similar in many respects
to Bellingham.
o Consider displaying data for each grade separately to enhance understanding of
progress being made over time.
o It would be helpful to provide more information on the relationship between
growth and proficiency.
o Shuksan Middle School shows impressive growth – reflecting targeted resources
in recent years.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
 Board members reported on recent school visits.
 Mr. Benjamin suggested the board consider scheduling a special meeting in
January or February to continue the advocacy discussion that took place at the
Nov. 17 special meeting.
Discussion of School Board Visits and Linkages
 Board members shared reflections on their Dec. 6 visit to Parkview Elementary
School.
 Suggested agenda items for the next board retreat were briefly discussed.

6.0

NEW BUSINESS – none

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Dr. Smith assessed the meeting with an overall rating of
5 (commendable)
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 8:14 p.m.

7.2

_____________________________________
Douglas Benjamin, School Board President
Attest:
_______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved: ______________

4

