1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 9, 2017
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
Mar. 9, 2017 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call
Board President Douglas Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Steven Smith,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience: no audience presented.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
 Update re: Attendance Areas PreK-12 Standing Committee: The committee has
submitted to Dr. Baker its Phase I Recommendation in connection with high school
attendance areas, and he will make a decision within the coming week. A community
input session for families impacted by proposed changes to elementary attendance
areas is taking place this evening at Cordata Elementary School. Once feedback from
that meeting and an online survey is evaluated, the committee will submit to Dr.
Baker its recommendation on elementary attendance areas.
 School Bus Levy Update: Twenty buses were ordered in Nov. 2016 at a cost of
$2,448,756. Deliveries of the buses will begin in May; all are expected here prior to
Aug. 1 so they will be ready for service at the start of the 2017-18 school year. Work
is underway with vendors for installation of technology on the buses, and about 13
drivers will be added to staff.
 2017-18 Budget Update:
o Dr. Baker summarized highlights of the leadership team’s work last week during
two days of budget hearings. Budget work will continue during an Executive
Team work session at North Cascades Institute on Mar. 17 and 18.
o State legislators have approved ESB 5023 in connection with delay of
implementation of the “levy cliff,” which means a planned cut to school districts’
local taxing authority has been postponed for another school year. Projected state
education revenues for 2017-18 are still not established.
 Facilities Planning Task Force: The task force will begin work following spring
break. Its purpose will be to build on the work of the 2012-13 Facilities Planning
Task Force. Recommended updates to the long-range Facilities Master Plan may
include: Possible renovation of existing elementary schools (Alderwood, Carl
Cozier, Columbia, Parkview, Sunnyland and Roosevelt); building a new
elementary school on the district’s King Mountain property; repurposing the
Alderwood Early Learning Center; upgrading some elementary playgrounds;

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
March 9, 2017





2.0

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
3.0
3.1

exploring community facility partnerships; completing phase 2 of the high school
fields and any additional funding needed to cover the remaining 2012 bond projects,
including Sehome High School and the Gordon Carter Environmental Learning
Center; continuing safety upgrades and facility improvement projects (roofs, etc.)
at existing schools; and/or purchasing/selling property. We will be utilizing dollars
from our capital projects fund in order to finish Sehome High School now and in a
next bond we will need to replenish that fund by about $12 million.
Prospective School Board Candidate Informational Meeting: Dr. Baker distributed a
draft agenda for the meeting scheduled for 6:15 p.m., April 19 at the district office.
School Board Handbook: Dr. Baker distributed a copy of the recently revised
handbook to each director.
Shuksan Community Family Night: This event, held Mar. 8, was a great success with
an excellent turnout. During discussion, Ms. Peterson asked that shuttles or other
forms of transportation be considered for future similar events in view of the large
number of participants.

CONSENT ITEMS
The board agreed to the following revision to the draft minutes of the Feb. 15, 2017
regular board meeting:
 Ms. Bashaw and Ms. Diaz Hackler, and Ms. Peterson discussed highlights of the
WA State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) Legislative Conference which
they attended, along with Ms. Peterson, earlier this month.
Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to approve the following
consent items. Vote was unanimous.
Approval of Minutes of the Jan. 31 linkage meeting, Feb. 14 school board visit, and
the revised minutes of the Feb. 15 regular meeting.
Approval of Investments – February 2017
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – February 2017
Resolution 4-17, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Resolution 5-17 TVF Interfund Loan
Authorize Negotiations for Transportation Garage Improvements Architect
Blaine School District Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services
– Boys Swim Coaching Assistant (#1617-105)
Thyssen Krupp Elevators (#1617-107)
City of Bellingham Parks and Rec (#1617-110)
Kent Getzin and Jim Hemmen (#1617-111)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
POLICY GOVERNANCE
Monitoring Report Ends 2.1 (part 2 – Student Participation in Post-Secondary and
Career-Ready Courses:) Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland and Director of
Research and Assessment Brian Rick presented a PowerPoint highlighting information in
the report and data set. Comments/questions included the following:

2

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
March 9, 2017







Kudos to Jeff Tetrick, Director, Career & Technical Education (CTE), for the
growth of the program.
AVID participation increased significantly again in 2016.
Dual credit access by Bellingham students receiving special education services
was lower than some comparable districts – can this be explored further?
Is increased academic rigor the district’s priority, or is it to increase the numbers
of students going to college?
In future reports, consider addressing questions such as: number of college
applications submitted; number of students attending and completing college; and
number of students who are employed in their field after completing training
programs in high school.

4.0
4.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Review Proposed Revisions to GP-2 – Governing Style – Revisions to the Governance
Process policies have been part of a larger sub-committee review. The board briefly
reviewed proposed revisions to GP-2 as part of an initial discussion that will continue
during upcoming board meetings. The reference to the Board Code of Conduct (page 8 of
the recently revised School Board Handbook) will need to be updated to reflect that the
Code of Conduct has been incorporated into GP-2.

5.0
5.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring: EL-4 – Staff Treatment, Compensation and
Evaluation - On Feb. 15, 2017, the consent agenda included a monitoring report on EL4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation. During this discussion, the board
discussed whether the superintendent is in compliance with the policy and whether any
policy revisions are needed. (See Attachment A for a full summary of comments.)
During discussion, Mr. Benjamin said he would like to learn more about the district’s
future staffing needs, and he noted that future EL-4 monitoring reports could be one
appropriate way to address this topic.
Proposed changes to Item 2 of the EL-4 policy were approved as follows:
2. The Superintendent shall not fail to:
a. ensure all staff are qualified and effective;
b. provide appropriate training for all employee classifications associated with
new employee induction; required by law; and
c. provide an affirmative (or negative) statement the following actions have been
taken:
i. maintain salary schedules for all employee classifications comparing
district salary and benefits relative to appropriate comparable districts;
and
ii. maintain a system to evaluate all employees, provide written
improvement plans, and monitor employee improvement;

3

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
March 9, 2017

6.0
6.1

6.2
7.0
8.0
8.1
5.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports – Board members discussed their participation in
recent and upcoming district-related activities, including the following:
 Ms. Bashaw recently met with students and staff to discuss how the district can
provide more support to students wanting to access the College Bound Scholarship
Program. She said the district is to be commended for the exemplary sign-up rate by
middle school students in this program.
 Ms. Diaz Hackler and Ms. Peterson recently attended the program at Bellingham
High School on social media safety by Darren Laur, known as The White Hatter. Ms.
Diaz Hackler said she would like to find ways to get the word out to other districts
about this program.
 The state legislature has passed ESHB 1333 which directs all higher education
institutions to come up with a coordinated policy for granting undergraduate college
credits to students who earn minimum scores of three on Advanced Placement exams.
 The 2017 annual conference of the National School Board Association (NSBA) is
Mar. 23 – Mar. 27 in Denver, CO. Mr. Benjamin and Ms. Diaz Hackler will attend.
Discussion of School Board Visits and Linkages: The directors discussed the Mar. 7
visit to Silver Beach Elementary School.
NEW BUSINESS – none
CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting with an overall rating
of 5 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 8:13 p.m.

___________________________________
Douglas Benjamin, School Board President
Attest:
______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved: ______________

4

