ATTACHMENT B

Monitoring Response Document

5-11-17 meeting minutes
Board Members: All
Policy Monitored: Ends 2.1, part 3, Student Competence
Date Report and Data Set submitted: 4-20-17
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5-11-17
The board has received and reviewed the superintendent’s monitoring report, including data set, referenced above. Following the board’s
review and discussions with the superintendent and his representatives, the board makes the following conclusions:

Ends Reports:

Executive Limitations Reports

1. The board finds that the superintendent:
1. The board finds that the superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance
d. is not in compliance or is not making
c. is making reasonable progress towards
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree
e. cannot be determined
of progress is expected in some areas.
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established.
e. cannot be determined

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 Numbers jumped up for all four sub-groups (ELL, Hispanic, low-income, IEPs)
 Graduation rates up for IEP students even though the state numbers remained constant.
 Graduation rate for low income and non low-income populations is greater than the state
average.
 Positive graduation and dropout rates/narrowing the gap:
o Overall & relative to comparable districts and state.
o Hispanic students, low income students, & students with IEPs
 Excellent demonstration of closing the graduation rate gap between Bellingham and our
comparable districts. 10% improvement over six years is commendable and has us very close
to our comparable districts.
 Similar progress is shown within a broader group of districts with comparable free and
reduced lunch population. This is further evidence we are progressing faster than other
districts in improving graduation rates.
 Some increase in college attendance is also evident.



The persistence rates of students attending four-year institutions remained fairly high.
Numbers of students with IEPs that went on to attend college – commendable.

3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 ELL and students with IEPs have a much higher dropout rate.

Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT B
5-11-17 meeting minutes

o It would be helpful to see some explanation of why our students with IEPs seem to lag
behind other districts. Perhaps a deeper look at the data to see if we are actually
comparing “apples to apples."






Graduation rates for students who receive free or reduced meals is a concern.
Narrowing the gap between white students and identified populations. The comparables are
doing better in this regard.
While the district still emphasizes college, competitive (or other) employment should also be
prized and encouraged. The comparable districts have more students who are competitively
employed than does Bellingham. How do we make school work for all kids and not just those
who want to go to college?
The numbers for the district overall look like they are improving; however, when digging
deeper (OSPI data by school), it looks like there is one high school with significantly higher
graduation rates than the others. The board would like to see more data that supports how the
successes at some schools can influence greater success at the others.

4. Comments on the report itself.
 Nice addition of “close comparables” to Bellingham.
 Appreciated the data about college enrollment from the national student clearinghouse.
 The persistence data on students in college is useful; persistence rates for year 1 to year 2 for
college is impressive.
 Table 2 in the narrative: in addition to the raw numbers, please include a percent.
 Presenting the data from pages 10 & 11 for all students and not just those with IEPs would be
appreciated.
 An early executive summary of bullet points at the report beginning on areas for improvement
and areas of progress over prior years will be helpful.
 As we’ve come to expect, the report is clear, concise with a good and understandable
presentation of the data.
 Appreciate looking at 5-year rates, not just "on-time" graduation rates
 Finding ways to measure post-high school engagement is interesting.
 The board would have been interested to hear more about how the "94 project" is influencing
current practices and engagement strategies to help high school students make it to graduation
and beyond.
5. Possible changes to the policy:
 In addition to graduation, the policy should emphasize what students are doing after
graduation. Much of the data is already included in the reports, but it should be incorporated
into the policy. It is not just about crossing the finish line, it is about success post-graduation,
whether that is college, work, or military service.
 The entire E-2.1 policy could use some fine-tuning to better reflect what the board believes is
"Student Competence.” More work is needed to improve graduation rates.

