Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
11/10/2022 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Scholten's Equipment graciously donated $200 to purchase bikes for Isom's Family Hispanic Night. A raffle will be held that
evening, and two students will be the lucky winners of a new bike!
Elementary schools partnered with Unity Care NW's Mobile Dental Clinic to serve students last week. Families were able to request
that their students receive a dental exam, oral health instruction, sealants, and flouride treatments.
School Psychologist, Kelly Lam-Scholten, received the 2022 President's Award from the Washington State Association of School
Psychologists. The award is for her service to the Association which includes advancing the standards of the profession, advocacy,
courageous leadership, and social justice.
LMS is celebrating the culmination of a successful fall sports season. Special thanks to the coaches who worked with our student
athletes:
Drew Smiley- Soccer
Lynne Barrios, Cindy Perry, and volunteer Matthew Hilkert- Cross Country
Steve Gatterman, Eric Petersen, Cory White, Kent Victor, and volunteers Michael Koenen and Ryan Dykstra- Football
Megan Paoli, Mason Kleindel, Liv Miller- Fastpitch

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes 10.27.2022
Executive Meeting Minutes- 10.27.22

4. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- October 31, 2022
Personnel Recommendations 11.10.22

5. Reports
a. Superintendent
Year-End Budget Report- 21/22
City of Lynden- Right of Way
Strategic Priority: Family & Community Partnerships

(Action)

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the Board
on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each
speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a
single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement
when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints
concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and
presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices
or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Action Items

(Action)

None at this meeting.

8. Policy
a. Second Readings
4210- Regulation of Dangerous Weapons on School Premises
3116- Students in Foster Care
3432- Emergencies
3122- Excused and Unexcused Absences

b. Continuing Readings
6610- Video Surveillance
1400- Conduct, Order of Business, & Quorum

9. Adjourn

