March 31, 2022
School Board Special Meeting
Minutes
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA
or
Via Teleconference
7:30 A.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 7:30 A.M. Board Directors in attendance were Brian Johson, CJ Costanti, David
Vis, Kelli Kettels and Tonya Hickman. Student Director, Grace Potter was absent and excused.
2. Adjourn Special Session
Special Session adjourned at 7:31 A.M.
3. Executive Session (90 minutes)
The Board convened for Executive Session at 7:31 A.M. to discuss qualifications of the finalist
superintendent candidates; David VanderYacht, Tavis Peterson, Lisa Riggs as the next Lynden School
District Superintendent.
4. Executive Session - Extension
President, Brian Johnson announced that Executive Session would be extended for 15 minutes.
5. Adjourn Executive Session
Executive Session adjourned at 9:13 A.M.
6. Open Meeting
Open meeting began at 9:15 A.M.
7. Announce Superintendent
Interim Superintendent, Mike Stromme reviewed the process that began in November 2021 to engage
the Lynden School District staff, families and community members and receive feedback regarding
identification and selection of the next Lynden School District superintendent. Board President, Brian
Johnson invited board directors to speak about the process. He then entertained a motion to select the
next Lynden School District superintendent. CJ Costanti made a motion to select David VanderYacht as
the next Lynden School District superintendent, effective July 1, 2022, subject to the successful
negotiation of a contract and the successful completion of a required third-party comprehensive
background check. Kelli Kettles seconded the motion. Board President Johnson noted the motion by
Director Costanti and the second by Director Kettles. Board President Johnson, then asked the Secretary
to the Board, Dr. Stromme, to conduct a roll call vote of the Board. Dr. Stromme conducted the roll call

vote. The motion carried with a unanimous 5-0 voice vote in favor of appointing Mr. David VanderYacht
as the next Lynden School District superintendent, effective July 1, 2022.

8. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 9:26 A.M.

Mike Stromme
Interim Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

