DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
December 14, 2022

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
December 14, 2022 – Options High School, 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgment:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged that this meeting
is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coast Salish people.
Roll Call:
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw (President), Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler,
Jenn Mason, Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Annual Organizational Meeting, Election of Officers
Board President: Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to nominate
Ms. Diaz Hackler for this position for the coming year, and Ms. Diaz Hackler agreed to
serve. Unanimous affirmative vote. Ms. Diaz Hackler thanked Ms. Bashaw for serving as
president over the past year.
Board Vice President: Ms. Bashaw made a motion to nominate Mr. Benjamin for this
position for the coming year, seconded by Ms. Mason, and Mr. Benjamin agreed to serve.
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Audience:
• Cadence Phelps, a sophomore, believes adults should take care of students. She
understands there are some legal reasons why the district has not responded. She
recently talked with Mr. Atkins, principal of Bellingham High School, and wishes
students were given more information, as it is confusing and tricky to navigate. She is
asking the board why people who harm students continue to be employed.
• Ceres Lehman would like to point out this is a systemic issue and school employees
are mandated reporters. This is a legal protection for students which needs to be
upheld. There was a student walkout last year, this is not a new problem. There are
many assaulters and victims at Squalicum High School because staff is not willing to
make meaningful change. She does not know what red tape prevents the change.
People are called slurs and those who do so are allowed to stay due to negligence of
school staff. Hotlines will not help students, kicking rapists out of school will. She is
afraid for new students who will be entering the schools and perpetrators should not
be allowed to stay. She would not send her own kids to Squalicum.
• Moose McGinty is here to speak about the failure to report sexual abuse in the school
and believes the students, even if the staff don’t. School staff did nothing about the
reported assault, and they are still in the building. Dr. Baker does not care. She asked

•

•

•

•

•

that students’ feelings of discomfort be taken into consideration. Sexual assault is a
big deal, and the lack of action speaks for the district. Students are re-living their
trauma when they see these adults in the school. She encourages parents to have
conversations with their students, even when the conversations are uncomfortable.
Students should be heard, loved and seen by all.
Avery Catlin shared that her mother is a teacher at Whatcom Middle School, and last
year a student there was locked in a bathroom. The student was not able to safely be
in a classroom with other students, so a bathroom was refurbished to be a learning
space for him. The communication between students and the school board is
troublesome. She believes the school board cares, but hoops and boundaries make it
not easy to communicate. Trust and communication are two words she’s heard a lot
today. There is not a lot of trust because there is no communication between us. She
wants to know what happened and only knows limited information. The best students
can do is come and talk to the school board, and she asks that the boundaries be less
divided.
Evan McDevitt is a student at Squalicum High School. He hopes the number of
people attending shows the gravity of this issue. The norms put in place by adults
make it impossible to fight for the change that is necessary. Students feel betrayed by
the adults in our lives. School staff are concerned with image and he’s tired of false
promises that are met with empty words. School administrators tell us what is right
and what is wrong. Why do administrators cheat us of voices to which they are
entitled? Why do they feel they transcend the rules they have taught us? The approach
the administration is taking needs to be changed, as trust has been lost due to staff
actions. When you will be ready to change with us?
Mikkel Hong stated he doesn’t want to be sharing this, but five years ago he reported
a sexual assault of one of his children. He sent an email to the principal and teacher,
and the principal said a safety plan was put in place. The assaulted student was then
stabbed with a pencil by the same student. Hearing the recent events brings that all
back and it’s insane that nothing was done. If I received an email like that as a
teacher, I would move the students to opposite sides of the classroom and monitor the
situation. Not moving the offending student away from my child is idiotic and insane.
Figure it out. Avoiding difficult conversations leads to this. When people are
predatory against other people, it needs to be dealt with.
Eden Johnson is a freshman at Bellingham High School and has been attending the
Bellingham Public Schools for five years. She is extremely disappointed. She tried to
report something in seventh grade that was nowhere near as terrible as this and was
scared the district would do nothing. There was no evidence, and it was not reported
until six months later. She only received one email, and nothing was done. The
district is hiding in fear and scared of retaliation. School is not safe anymore. There
may be posters with tiplines, but that does not guarantee safety. With so much going
on in two different schools, the district needs to do better. You are failing us and you
are failing to work with us. We feel inferior to you because we are young. Hopefully
we will not inherit any of this behavior. Fear is the emotion I feel most at school and
sexual assaults have been on the rise at Bellingham High School this year.
Leah Clark is here as a student advocate, as Options High School administrators have
abused their position of power. The Bellingham School District has made a promise
2

1.5

to the public to use restorative practices, but this is not happening at Options. School
staff members can substantially interfere with a student’s education. Administrators
follow students into the bathroom to watch them urinate. She asked the board to take
time to understand the district staff’s lack of following policies. Negative
consequences should not be used until positive reinforcement has proven to be noneffective. Options High School is supposed to be an opportunity for a new beginning
without judgment. She asks the board to take this information into consideration.
• Camden Morris is the parent of two grade school students who were formerly
enrolled in the Bellingham Public Schools but are now being homeschooled. There is
a sheer lack of district staff taking responsibility, starting at the top with Greg Baker.
You have kids coming here tonight to tell you what your job is, and you should be
embarrassed. Sexualization is being promoted to little kids. Every single one of you is
of the same opinion, with everyone being about diversity. Listen to other people and
other ideas. This is not a one-party system; we are a community and all viewpoints
count. How can kids trust adults who don’t do the right thing and how many times
will it take being in the spotlight to change? Stop the sexualization of kids. It’s a
shame.
• Mark Geri is a former student who has children at Sunnyland Elementary. He is
impressed with the students who are here tonight. While a student at Sehome High
School, he was called defamatory names and abused. Things in this district do not
change or get addressed. He was consistently stuck in a room talking about his
feelings with the same people who beat him up. His children in elementary school are
being bullied and having those issues ignored by the administrators has been
challenging. Certain things should be addressable at the school level, and it should be
a safe place. It hasn’t been in the past and it isn’t now, which is a failure of
leadership. He asked that the proposal to pay for legal fees of district staff should not
be approved. They made choices that need to be seen by the students here tonight.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker acknowledged our phenomenal students who are here this evening. As
educators we are here to work hard, and what we have heard this week is that they
want us to listen more and do better. They have things to say, they have pain, and
they are not convinced that as adults we are hearing them. It is difficult for staff and
the school board to hear their feedback tonight, but it has been powerful, and their
honesty gives us direction about what we can do better. The administrative team will
continue to lean in. A short recess was taken to allow those who did not wish to stay
for the remainder of the meeting to leave.
• This past week has been challenging and staff have been engaged heavily in the work.
• Dr. Baker shared a few highlights from the EL-7 and EL-8 monitoring reports that are
included in tonight’s consent agenda.
• He then shared some photos of celebrations in classes for the World Cup; the
gratitude lunch at Options High School from a couple of weeks ago; Native American
History month; book fairs at elementary schools with local first responders as guest
readers; a culinary class fundraiser to support cancer research; and a Futures
Northwest event at Options High School.
• The Sustainability Advisory Committee has been meeting and is engaged in next
steps.
3

•
•
•
•

Some of our schools have had new reader boards installed.
The School-Based Health Center Planning Task Force is underway. They have
recently been looking at how it has been done in school districts in other
communities.
A Kwanzaa family event is scheduled for tomorrow evening at Bellingham High
School.
Dr. Ken Gass, who served on the school board for 17 years, was recently recognized
by the Chamber of Commerce with a Lifetime Achievement Award.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the Nov. 8, 2022 School Board Visit; Nov. 9, 2022 Regular
Meeting; Nov. 18, 2022 Special Meetings (2); and Nov. 29, 2022 School Board Visit
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – November 2022
Resolution 24-22, Declaring an Emergency and Waiving Bidding Requirements for
Carl Cozier Safety/Security Improvements
Resolution 25-22, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Resolution 26-22, Investment and Signatory Change
Resolution 27-22, Cancellation of Stale-Dated Checks
Resolution 28-22, Legal Defense for Employees
New District Office Change Order #01
Policy 1822 Update, Training and Professional Development for Board Members
EL-7 Monitoring Report – Budget Planning and Execution
EL-9 Monitoring Report – Asset Maintenance and Protection
Adoption of Rights, Respect, Responsibility: A K-12 Sex Education Curriculum
OSPI iGrants 217 Highly Capable Program Assurances
DCYF Workforce Retention Grant
Avail Home Health, Inc. Contract (#2223-097)
U.S. OMNI & TSACG Compliance Services Amendment (#2223-100)
Sendan Center Addendum to Agreement for Services (#004-2223A)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Revision to B/SR-3.1.1, Monitoring Response Form
This item will be moved to the January 18, 2023 regular meeting.

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
This item will be moved to the January 18, 2023 regular meeting.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-10, Race and Equity
This item will be moved to the January 18, 2023 regular meeting.

4.2

4

4.3

Board Response to Monitoring – EL-5, Communication and Counsel to the Board
This item will be moved to the January 18, 2023 regular meeting.

5.0
5.1

5.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Mason heard the frustration this evening about what can and cannot be shared
about recent events, and that is understandably frustrating for everyone. She
acknowledged the students who spoke tonight, specifically acknowledging the
bravery it takes to speak at a school board meeting and use their voice to talk about
what they believe in. She was a sexual assault advocate for Whatcom County DVSAS
(Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Services) for 10 years and knows how events
can bring up pain for those who have experienced violation and those who have been
unsupported. She also appreciates the staff who are listening, leaning in and learning,
using this moment to learn what we can do better.
• Mr. Benjamin agrees with Ms. Mason’s comments. The entire board attended the
WSSDA conference in Spokane in November. He attended many meetings, but the
best part was all the school board members spending time together. He was
nominated for a WSSDA position but declined the nomination. The board’s visit to
Columbia Elementary School was great, and the “bugs and wishes” presentation was
a wonderful example of social emotional learning. He plans to keep investigating how
to increase student voice on our board. Each WSSDA board member received two
100-year commemorative anniversary coins at the conference and were instructed to
share one with someone else, and Mr. Benjamin presented a coin to Dr. Baker.
• Ms. Rose also thought the Columbia visit was fantastic. She was excited to see the
intention of giving children at an early age the language to advocate for themselves. It
was her first visit as a board member to one of our older schools. Temperature
regulation, size and spaces are noticeably different from our newer schools. She
thanked those who chose to attend tonight’s meeting. She agrees that it’s frustrating
that details cannot be more transparent due to privacy laws. It’s important for every
child to know they can continue asking for help until they get it and speaking up
about it is brave.
• Ms. Bashaw also thanked those who attended and spoke this evening about a difficult
time and topic. We hear you. She appreciates the staff who take time to lean in and
listen to the students.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler also appreciates the participation of students at the meeting.
GP-7.2 – 2022-23 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Diaz Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:02 p.m.

7.2

5

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

6

