DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
WITH PUBLIC HEARING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 17, 2023

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
August 17, 2023 – Options High School, 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgement
Ms. Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged that this
meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Lummi people and Nooksack
tribe.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Jenn Mason,
Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). Director Kelly
Bashaw was unable to attend the meeting.
Public Hearing on Adoption of 2023-24 Budget
Ms. Diaz Hackler explained the purpose of the public hearing, which is to provide an
opportunity for anyone who would like to speak for or against the adoption of the 202324 budget to comment before the board takes action on the budget later this evening. No
audience presented, and no public testimony was offered or shared in written form
relating to the proposed budget adoption.
Audience:
• Michael Chrzastowski is a board member of the South Hill Neighborhood
Association. When neighbors of Lowell Elementary received a notification of an
electronic reader board being installed at the school, there was first confusion and
then opposition. Within one week a petition was circulating, and the petition now has
341 names. Many people have questioned the need for the sign, as parents typically
use their phone for information, and some receive daily email messages from the
school. What is being opposed is a high-intensity LED computerized display. A nonelectric sign like the one at the entrance to Sehome High School would be
appreciated. The district can use this as an example of the district listening to and
working with a school neighborhood.
• Bill Geyer is a resident of the South Hill neighborhood, living one block from Lowell
Elementary School. He is certified by the American Institute of Certified Planners
with 45 years of professional planning experience. The school board members are the
trustees of public owned assets and determine what gets built on district property.
Lowell is so treasured that the South Hill Neighborhood Association amended its
neighborhood plan to preserve the school. In 2018, the school district requested a

1.6

change to the long-standing code prohibiting reader boards and electronic signs in
residential zones. The district’s application locates the reader board in the 15th Street
right-of-way, which is prohibited by City code unless special dispensation is granted.
He prefers a static sign that serves the purpose of the neighborhood and the school.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• The consent agenda contains a resolution to adopt the 2023-24 budget, which is the
culminating step in the year-long budget development process. The budget changes
daily, and the good news from the last few days is that the district received a grant to
support mental health and a large grant that will help to fund field trips, including the
fifth grade Mountain School trips. The budget will continue to change, and the next
major milestone will be the enrollment picture when students arrive two weeks from
today.
• Dr. Baker reviewed capital projects that are in process, including:
o A new inclusive playground at Silver Beach Elementary School, as well as
improvements in and around the building.
o The renovation of the tennis courts at Squalicum High School, including the
expansion from five to six courts, as well as the addition of lighting for the
courts.
o An outdoor athletic building at Bellingham High School that will include
concessions, restrooms and storage. The tennis courts are also being
renovated.
o Cordata Elementary School has received exterior painting and parking lot
improvements.
o Northern Heights Elementary has also received exterior paint, including the
portables, and fencing to separate the play area from the bus loop.
o Bricks and windows are being installed at the new District Office.
• Administrators returned to work last week and have been involved in training and
professional development. All administrators participated in a full-day safety training
presented by the I Love U Guys Foundation. The training helps to refine language
around safety, and school leaders will update staff in their schools.
• The third annual Block Party will be held this Saturday at Bellingham High School.
Each school will have a table in the commons where the principal and staff can greet
families, and community partners will be located in the gym.
• The August 30 all-staff kickoff at Civic Field will begin at 8:30 a.m., with staff from
each district location arriving by school bus.
• There will be an open house for the temporary location of the Community Transitions
program on Sept. 12 at the Birchwood WECU building.
• The 2023-24 Family Handbook, which contains the calendar and other important
information, has been mailed and will be received by all district families.
• The reader board project has been paused and efforts will be made to engage the
community in conversations about any future projects.
• Dr. Baker responded to questions from board members.

2

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Rose indicated that she is employed by the Opportunity Council, and agenda item
2.15 contains a contract with the Opportunity Council. To avoid a conflict of interest per
RCW 42.23.030, Ms. Rose will recuse herself from voting on item 2.15. Ms. Rose made
a motion to vote on item 2.15 separately. Ms. Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous
affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.16

Approval of Minutes of the July 20, 2023 Special and Regular Meetings
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – July 2023
Resolution 22-23, Adoption of 2023-24 Budget
Resolution 23-23, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Matia Contractors Agreement (#2223-233)
Harris Pacific Northwest Agreement (#2223-234)
Avail Home Health, Inc. Contract (#2324-019)
Curriculum Associates Quote (#2324-027)
Washington Student Achievement Council Interagency Agreement (#2324-030)
Cornerstone Educational Solutions, LLC Agreement for Services (#2324-031)
Northwest Career & Technical Academy Agreement (#2324-032)
Salish Sea Deaf School Contracts (#2324-035)
Whatcom Community College Inter-Agency Agreements (#2324-037, #2324-038,
#2324-039)
Sendan Center Agreement for Services (#2324-040)
Personnel Recommendations
Ms. Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda item:

2.15

Opportunity Council-Early Learning and Family Services Agreement (#2324-041)
Affirmative votes: Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason.
Abstention: Ms. Rose.

3.0
3.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Mason shared that Northwest Youth Services will present a Healing Centered
Engagement Gathering at Whatcom Community College on Oct. 7, as a follow up to
a recent conference focused on opioids. It will be a youth-led conversation about what
our community can be doing.
• Mr. Benjamin reminded the board about WSSDA’s Sept. 22-23 General Assembly,
which will be attended by Ms. Diaz Hackler. He attended the WSSDA board’s
summer retreat a couple of weeks ago and shared that WSSDA has adopted some

3

•

policy governance type processes. He is disappointed that he’ll be unable to attend the
Aug. 30 all-staff kickoff due to a family event.
Ms. Diaz Hackler attended a presentation focused on the opioid crisis at Bellingham
High School on Aug. 1, sponsored by All Hands Whatcom. It was an interesting
event attended by many caring community members.

4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

5.0
5.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Rose assessed the meeting, with an overall rating of
4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:29 p.m.

5.2

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved:

4

