DRAFT MINUTES OF THE COMMUNITY LINKAGE SPECIAL MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 3, 2023 6:00-7:00 p.m.
Sehome High School
Linkage Attendees:
• Sehome High School Students, Parents/Guardians
• Directors present: Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn
Mason, Katie Rose.
• Superintendent of Bellingham Public Schools Greg Baker.
• District Leadership and Staff: Executive Director of Communications and Community
Relations Jackie Brawley; Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland; Assistant
Superintendent of Teaching and Learning Jay Jordan; Executive Director of Family
Engagement Isabel Meaker; Executive Director of Educational Technology Kurt
Gazow; Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources Matt Whitten; Executive
Director of Human Resources Ari Feeney; Director of Special Education Courtney Ross
Webb; Sehome High School Principal Sonia Cole; Sehome High School Instructional
Coach Kim Kirk; and Sehome High School Special Education Teacher Erin Furda.
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions: School Board President Camille Diaz
Hackler welcomed everyone and called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. She introduced
Superintendent Greg Baker who welcomed attendees and invited all to introduce
themselves.
Meeting Purpose – Explanation of Community Linkages: Dr. Baker thanked everyone
for taking the time to be here this evening.
Community linkage meetings give the school board an opportunity to strengthen the
connection with our students, and the school board is excited to hear what students and
their families have to say about their experiences. The three table groups will now have
time for conversations and respond to the guiding questions provided:
•
•
•
•
•
•

How have our schools and school district supported you? Or not?
In looking at The Bellingham Promise, what stands out for you as important?
Thinking about your daily schedule, what is your favorite part of the day?
What works best to support your learning?
Tell me about a time when you felt loved at school.
What do you want to be when you grow up?

•
•

What are some of the things we could be doing differently to help you or your
friends?
What are some things that you would like adults to know about being served in
Special Education?

At the end of the small group time, Dr. Baker asked each group to share briefly what they
had discussed. Following are highlights from the groups:
First table:
• A lot was learned by listening to family experiences.
• The paraeducators’ relationships with a family are very important.
• More training and planning time is needed for paraeducators.
• Communication between school and home is critical, and there is always room for
improvement.
• Unified sports is a great program, and it is hoped that students will be allowed to
participate in two sports.
Second table:
• There is a lot of support and positive experiences for kids at Sehome.
• Communications from school staff is important, and there is a need for more of it.
• It would be nice for families to receive periodic messages from the Special
Education director with updates on programs.
• Opportunities for families to receive information about cross-level transitions
(elementary to middle school; middle to high school) would be appreciated.
• How are we preparing students for their lives after high school?
Third table:
• Afterschool opportunities are very valuable, and additional access for students
would be provided if there was more adult support.
• After students graduate from high school or Community Transitions, what
community supports will be available?
• All students need a place in the world for those with special needs and without
special needs.
• Our community would benefit from more structured assistance for young adults
with special needs.
• There are many parents who are not capable of supporting or advocating for their
students. Our community needs to advocate for them.
Dr. Baker asked the school board members for their reflections after participating in the
discussions:
•

Ms. Rose commented on the amazing advocates the students have in their
families. It should not rest solely on the parents to be advocates. It should fall on
our entire community.

2

•

•
•

Mr. Benjamin shared that one of his children attended the district’s Life Skills
program and now works at Fred Meyer. Each year the Washington State School
Directors Association (WSSDA) selects legislative advocacy topics. This year
there were 197 topics submitted, and Special Education was selected as the top
priority.
Ms. Mason noted that student and family experiences hinge on the staff in our
schools. She appreciated hearing from parents of older students with special
needs, as that is her future.
Ms. Diaz Hackler understands the concern the parents feel for when their child
graduates.

Dr. Baker thanked the Sehome High School families and staff for being here this evening.
He and the executive team are here to listen and to understand the role the district needs
to play. He responded to questions about the future of the Community Transitions
program.
Ms. Diaz Hackler thanked everyone for participating and invited families to email the
school board with any additional comments or thoughts. She adjourned the meeting at
7:01 p.m.

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ______________

3

