DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 9, 2023

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
November 9, 2023 – Options High School, 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgment:
Ms. Diaz Hackler (President) called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged
that this meeting is being held on ancestral homelands of the Lummi people and
Nooksack tribe.
Roll Call:
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President),
Jennifer Mason and Katie Rose, Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
• Michael Chrzastowski is a board member of the South Hill Neighborhood
Association and a South Hill representative to the Mayor’s Neighborhood Advisory
Commission. He is here this evening to recognize Stephanie Korn, the principal of
Lowell Elementary School, for changes that have been made for student drop-off and
pick-up. The changes have increased efficiency and safety, and he would like to
commend Ms. Korn and her staff for their valuable impact on the school and
neighborhood.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker shared updates and photos on some of the district’s capital projects:
o Kulshan Middle School addition and field improvements.
o School gardens. Staff have worked to develop standards for elementary school
gardens and are now working on middle school standards.
o Athletic building at Bellingham High School, which will include restrooms,
concessions and storage.
o The new District Office construction is going well, with the opening expected
to be sometime during the second semester of this school year.
• Dr. Baker’s listening and learning tour is continuing. Since the last meeting he has
spent full days at Bellingham, Squalicum and Sehome High Schools and Birchwood
Elementary School. He has enjoyed observing in classrooms, talking with staff and
meeting with students. A highlight was an hour-long drive with Traffic Safety
students.
• Two theatre productions opened this week, one at Bellingham High School and the
other at Squalicum High School.

•
•
•
•

•

Dr. Baker reminded the board that replacement levies will be on the February 2024
special ballot, and the team is working to provide information to the community about
the replacement levies.
Veterans Day assemblies have been occurring at schools, recognizing those who have
served in our military.
The consent agenda includes a monitoring report on EL-5 (Communication and
Counsel to the Board), and Dr. Baker highlighted some of what is contained in the
report.
The agenda also includes a lease with Whatcom Community College (WCC), related
to the new Community Transitions facility that will be built there. He thanked the
team at WCC and the district team who figured out how to make it happen. The
Community Transitions Educational Specifications/Design Advisory Committee will
begin meeting soon.
This will be Kelly Bashaw’s last meeting as a school board director.

Dr. Baker responded to questions from the board.
2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Bashaw indicated that she is employed by Whatcom Community College, and
agenda item 2.12 contains a lease agreement with Whatcom Community College. To
avoid a conflict of interest per RCW 42.23.030, Ms. Bashaw will recuse herself from
voting on item 2.12. Ms. Bashaw made a motion to vote on item 2.12 separately. Ms.
Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.13
2.14

Approval of Minutes of Oct. 12, 2023 Regular Meeting; Oct. 24, 2023 Student
Roundtable; Oct. 31, 2023 School Visit
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll
Resolution 31-23, Cancellation of Stale-Dated Checks
Resolution 32-23, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Resolution 33-23, Certification of 2024 Excess Property Taxes
Hire Appraiser for Potential Property Sale
Hire Appraiser for Potential Property Purchase
EL-5 Monitoring Report – Communication and Counsel to the Board
Amendment #2 to 2023-24 Whatcom Discovery Program Interlocal Agreement
(#2324-002B)
Lynden School District Interlocal Agreement (#2324-087)
School’s Out Washington Refugee School Impact Program Contract (#2324-092)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Ms. Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Ms. Rose, to approve the following consent
agenda item:
2

2.12

Whatcom Community College Ground Lease (#2324-098)
Affirmative votes: Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason, Ms. Rose.
Abstention: Ms. Bashaw.

3.0
3.1

3.2

4.0
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4

5.0
5.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
After discussion, it was requested that the spreadsheets that accompany the EL-1 report
contain more information about some of the policy work that has occurred over the past
year. This will be discussed at the December 14, 2023 meeting, after the additional
information has been provided to the board.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-10, Race and Equity
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-10 (Attachment A). Ms. Diaz Hackler will provide a final summary version of this
document which will be submitted for approval at the December 14, 2023 regular
meeting.
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
B/SR-1 Board/Superintendent Connection
No changes.
B/SR-2 Delegation to the Superintendent
No changes.
B/SR-3 Superintendent Evaluation
No changes.
B/SR-3.1.1 Monitoring Response Document
No changes.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Mason enjoyed the Teacher Academy student roundtable and is interested in
learning even more about it. What has struck her about the last few student
roundtables is the sense of community students feel in our programs like Teacher
Academy. She liked hearing from the two graduates of the Teacher Academy
program that the program jump started their careers. She felt a strong sense of
community at the visit to Geneva Elementary. The student leaders feel an ownership
in helping other students in their school.
• Ms. Benjamin commented that the school visits are always terrific. He was impressed
with the visit to Geneva, which has a large population and seems to be managed well.
He is participating on WSSDA’s equity committee, which will be meeting early
Saturday morning during the upcoming WSSDA conference. The agenda is focused
on technology and how it can help equity. He thanked Dr. Baker for examples that
will be enjoyed by the rest of the state. He attended a tour of the new District Office
yesterday and was amazed at the progress. It will be a beautiful building.
• Ms. Rose is impressed with the level of comfort the students have during the board’s
visits to their schools. One student leader from Geneva offered her a coat from the
3

•

•

lost and found. She loved having the opportunity to see a transitional kindergarten
space. At the Teacher Academy student roundtable, the high school students talked
about apathy during and following the COVID-19 pandemic, and it highlighted the
importance of mental health support. In her work with the Opportunity Council, she
has learned how difficult it can be for an adult to obtain government-issued
identification. Students being able to obtain a driving permit and license while in the
Traffic Safety program is immensely valuable.
Ms. Bashaw thought the visit to the early learning classroom at Geneva was very
special, and she saw the care that goes into helping the students feel comfortable and
welcome. While she will miss those moments of serving on the school board, she
feels good knowing that Scott Ritchey will do a great job as a director. Serving on the
board has been a great experience for her. The district is in great hands, and she has
appreciated everyone who works so hard to make the board look good. Keeping kids
and families front and center of what we do is what makes this a great district. She
thanked everyone.
Ms. Diaz Hackler enjoyed the Teacher Academy student roundtable and thinks it’s
great that a student can experience what it would be like to be a teacher, without
paying college tuition for that experience. Upcoming events for the board include the
annual WSSDA conference Nov. 16-18 in Bellevue and a board visit at Bellingham
High School on Nov. 28.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Members of the executive team and the school board shared their appreciation for Ms.
Bashaw and her 16 years of service as a school board director.
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:13 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

ATTACHMENT A
11/9/23 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document – INITIAL COMPILATION
Policy Monitored: EL-10, Race and Equity
Date Report Submitted: 10/12/2023
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 11/9/2023
Below are my responses in connection with the report:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance. KB DB CDH JM KR
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
KB:
• The district safety tipline continues to be a useful tool for ensuring confidentiality in reporting
incidents of safety (including bias, bullying, intimidation, hate speech and/or racism).
• The recently ratified 2023-2026 Bellingham Education Association (teacher) contract includes
a newly bargained section focused on a commitment to equity in recruiting and retaining a
diverse teacher workforce.
• An invited panel of multilingual students who presented to the Department of Teaching and
Learning team in the spring of 2022 helped bring a greater understanding of the issues that
multilingual learners face in Bellingham.
• Latinos in Action (LIA) is being offered as a new course at SQHS.
• As a part of our work on inclusion, we are committed to reducing out of neighborhood
placements for students receiving Special Education services. With this year’s group of
kindergarteners (so far) we have had zero out of neighborhood placements.
• Happy Valley Elementary continues to be a leader in our district with implementation of the
Since Time Immemorial (STI) curricular resources.
DB:
• There is evidence that the superintendent has continued to develop and implement new
policies this past year to further the efforts of reporting and responding to incidents and
behaviors that are not consistent with this policy. Thank you for the updates. Nice job
decreasing the percentage of those not aware of the “tipline.”
1

ATTACHMENT A
11/9/23 board meeting minutes
•

•
•

•

There is evidence that the superintendent has made progress over the past year in efforts to
increase awareness and development of a culturally diverse workforce. Noted are expansion
of EDI professional development and partnerships with outside organizations to promote the
intent of this policy.
There is progress increasing the districts multilingual work forces.
There is impressive evidence that the superintendent, through expanded development and
utilization of the Family Engagement programs, has increased connection and services to
culturally diverse families and students. The Board also saw evidence of this at the recent visit
to Shuksan Middle School.
There is evidence that the resources put into EDI work, inclusionary practices and staff
training have increased this past year.

CDH:
• The board is impressed with the work achieved so far, especially the new language in the
BEA contract, the hiring of bilingual office assistants and the training on Purple Fridays.
JM:
• Improvements in students knowing about the tipline.
• BEA contract including language around hiring a diverse workforce.
• Ample learning opportunities around EDI.
• Bilingual front office staff members.
• Work to recognize, compensate, learn from, recruit, and elevate non-White staff members in a
variety of ways.
• Love the Café con Pan meetings.
• FB page specifically for our Spanish-speaking families.
• Reduction of out-of-neighborhood replacements.
• Shift away from traditional conference days.
KR:
• Remarkable progress in improving student awareness of the safety tipline (reduced the
percentage of students unaware of it by roughly 57%).
• Language in BEA agreement to collaborate on supporting, recruiting and retaining educators
of color.
• More than a third of district front offices have bilingual front office assistants.
• Increased wage premium for multilingual employees.
• Multilingual students invited to help Dept of Teaching and Learning develop a greater
understanding of multilanguage learner experience.
• Bilingual Teacher academies support bilingual students and demonstrate a career path that
emphasizes the value of their experience.
• So many new efforts in engaging families and community partners and implementing
culturally responsive practices/curriculum while also building on past successes like the block
party.
• Appreciate the move away from “conferencing days” to a more inclusive model—supports
not just families with work and childcare restraints, but provides a more welcoming approach
for parents and caregivers apprehensive about engaging with schools due to their own
experiences.

2

ATTACHMENT A
11/9/23 board meeting minutes
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
KB:
• Continue the great work.
DB:
• None other than continued progress.
CDH:
• None.
JM:
• Work in this area will likely never be “done” but the district has done an incredible job of
putting EDI into action at every level.
KR:
• None.
4. Comments on the report itself.
KB:
• Excellent examples of all of the great work that is happening in BPS. Thanks to the efforts of
many and especially Dr. Janis Velasquez Farmer and Isabel Meaker.
DB:
• Concise yet detailed – thank you.
CDH:
• Great job in highlighting all of the work done so far.
JM:
• Appreciate the information on how tracking of bias/hate crimes works.
KR:
• Might be helpful for the board to include some demographic data about populations that some
programs and efforts are more targeted to.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
KB:
• None.
DB:
• No changes, though it should be noted that the board’s intention in the development of this
policy was to codify the impressive equity efforts that the superintendent and his team were
already doing. The continued commitment to this work is evident.
CDH:
• None.
JM:
• None.
KR:
• None.

3

