DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 12, 2023

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
October 12, 2023 – Options High School, 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgment:
Ms. Diaz Hackler (President) called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged
that this meeting is being held on ancestral homelands of the Lummi people and
Nooksack tribe.
Roll Call:
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President),
Jennifer Mason and Katie Rose, Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
• Michael Chrzastowski is a board member of the South Hill Neighborhood
Association and a South Hill representative to the Mayor’s Neighborhood Advisory
Commission. The South Hill Neighborhood Association held its most recent meeting
on Sept. 27, with approximately 100 people in attendance including current and
potential future mayors and city council members. Dr. Baker was a guest at the
meeting and answered questions about the proposed electronic reader board at Lowell
Elementary School. Dr. Chrzastowski noted there is only one existing electronic sign
in the South Hill neighborhood. He expressed appreciation to the district for pausing
on the installation plan at Lowell.
• Lisa Marx is a Bellingham resident and acknowledged that the district currently has
CTE courses available to high school students which may lead them to apprenticeship
pathway opportunities. She shared that there are two large billion-dollar projects that
will be built in our community, which will require a large work force with experience
or an education in the trades. The projects will be two to three years in the future,
which gives students time to begin thinking about careers in the trades and
apprenticeship opportunities. She noted that there are educational grants available for
students in these fields, and she is happy to be a resource for more information.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Many great things have been going on around the district, and Dr. Baker shared
photos of recent events. National Hispanic Heritage Month is Sept. 15 to Oct. 15, and
our high school students enjoyed assemblies that were led by Latinos in Action
student groups. Monday, Oct. 9, was Indigenous Peoples Day, and the Lummi Nation
welcomed hundreds of community members to join a celebration featuring speakers,
dancing and cooked salmon.

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

Dr. Baker gave an update, with photos, of ongoing capital projects:
o Addition of four classrooms at Kulshan Middle School.
o Tennis court expansion projects.
o Field improvements at Bellingham High School.
o Over the past week, district office staff had the opportunity to tour the new
district office that is under construction.
As the board is aware, the state does not fund after-school activities and athletics,
because they are extracurricular. Our local levy makes it possible for students to
participate in these activities. Dr. Baker shared photos of recent after-school events,
including Unified Sports. He noted that the high schools’ all city orchestra
performance at Bellingham High School is this evening.
Dr. Baker noted that tonight’s consent agenda includes two policy governance
monitoring reports, EL-1 (Expectations of Superintendent) and EL-10 (Race and
Equity). Responding to board feedback from last year’s report, the EL-1 report
includes evidence around communication with community stakeholders.
The district’s Climate Action Plan was recently published, and Dr. Baker thanked
Chief Operations Officer Jessica Sankey and Director of Facilities and Sustainability
Mark Peterson for leading the work of the Sustainability Advisory Committee.
Student voice is very much reflected in the plan.
Tomorrow is a professional development day, with many choices and opportunities
for district staff to participate.
The consent agenda contains two resolutions directing the district to add replacement
operations and technology levies on the February 2024 election ballot. Every district
in our county will be running similar levies. The operations levy funds many staff
positions and student activities. Dr. Baker gave examples of the tax implications for
the two replacement levies and gave an overview of what would be funded by the
replacement technology levy.
Dr. Baker is continuing with his listening and learning tour and shared photos of his
days at Alderwood, Kulshan and Fairhaven schools. He enjoys spending time in
classrooms and getting to know students and staff.

Dr. Baker responded to questions from the board.
2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of Sept. 14, 2023 Regular Meeting and Oct. 3, 2023 School
Visit
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll
Resolution 26-23, Deposit of Debt Service Fund Investment Earnings
Resolution 27-23, Authorization of Café
Resolution 28-23, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Resolution 29-23, Replacement Educational Support and Operations Levy and
Resolution 30-23, Replacement Technology Capital Projects Levy
New Policy – Policy 6804, District Office Café Operation

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7

2

2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15

Policy 6215 Update, Voucher Certification and Approval
Memo Discipline Appeal Council
EL-1 Monitoring Report – Expectations of Superintendent
EL-10 Monitoring Report – Race and Equity
State of Washington Department of Health Amendment to Grant Award and
Agreement (#2223-224A)
Altria Group, Inc. Settlement Offer and Release of All Claims (#2324-065)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Diaz Hackler read a statement regarding the formation of a citizens committee
against the replacement levy measures and directed anyone interested to contact the
Communications and Community Relations office by Dec. 1, 2023.

3.0
3.1
3.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
GP-7.2 – 2023-24 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Mason thought the board’s visit to Shuksan Middle School was great. The district
is lucky to have Executive Director of Family Engagement Isabel Meaker. The
amount of support we have for families is likely not typical for a school district, and
the Family Resource Center really gets things done! She understands that there have
been concerns from the Carl Cozier community recently. She is excited about the
work that has been happening as we prepare for the new school to be built.
Everything happens by a process and not at the same time, and she believes the best
parts of a school are the people who are in it. She is grateful for the staff in the
schools and the facilities staff. She appreciated the district message that went out
today about the war in Israel and Gaza, recognizing that it’s a hard time for many
people in our community.
• Mr. Benjamin also enjoyed the Shuksan visit and appreciated the drill down on the
Multilingual Learner (MLL) interventions available at the school. The Family
Resource Center support is incredible, and he believes we are leaders in that area. He
reminded board members that WSSDA elections close on Oct. 16.
• Ms. Rose regretted missing the Shuksan visit because of her family’s illness. She
noted that access to technology made it possible for her son to not fall behind with his
schoolwork while he was sick.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler recently attended the WSSDA Legislative Assembly. She shared
that there was much controversy surrounding weighted voting. She believes the
hybrid event allowed those who weren’t attending in person to take over the event.
WSSDA will soon be sharing a list of potential topics so that districts can identify
their priority items.

4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

3

5.0
5.1
5.2

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:47 p.m.

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

