DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
September 14, 2023

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
September 14, 2023 – Options High School, 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgment:
Ms. Diaz Hackler (President) called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged
that this meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Lummi people and
Nooksack tribe.
Roll Call:
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President),
Jennifer Mason and Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
• Michael Chrzastowski is a board member of the South Hill Neighborhood
Association and a South Hill representative to the Mayor’s Neighborhood Advisory
Commission, speaking this evening about the proposed reader board installation at
Lowell Elementary School. He asked what problem would be solved by the electronic
message board, as parents can receive messages from the school on their cell phones.
He is concerned about the long-term wellbeing of the cherished Lowell facility and
believes confidence of local voters in how the district uses bond money has been
eroded. He requested that the district consider installing a non-electric sign and
invited board members to attend the Sept. 27 South Hill Neighborhood Association
meeting, as the electronic sign installation will be discussed.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Today was the tenth day of the school year, and it has been a wonderful start.
• Since the last board meeting, some professional development has occurred, including
Since Time Immemorial at Sehome High School, the paraeducator summer institute
at Kulshan Middle School and world drumming training at Parkview Elementary
School.
• The third annual block party was well-attended, staffed by many volunteers led by
Executive Director of Family Engagement Isabel Meaker. All schools were
represented, as were many agencies and community partners. Interpreters were
present to make the event more accessible to families.
• The all-staff Back-to-School Kick-Off Celebration was held on Aug. 30 at Civic
Field. This was the second year it was held at Civic Field, and while it’s nice to be
outside with more room, there are some drawbacks such as no access to multi-media.

•

•
•

It has worked well to have staff ride school buses from their school or workplace to
the event.
Capital projects work continues:
o The addition of four new classrooms at Kulshan Middle School to help to
alleviate some of the need for portables.
o Renovations to the tennis courts at Squalicum and Bellingham High Schools,
increasing the number of courts and adding lighting to the courts.
o The updated playground at Silver Beach has been a big hit with students.
o Reader boards have helped to increase awareness of school events for
families.
o Additional outdoor improvements at Bellingham High School include storage
and concessions.
o Construction of the new district office continues, and district office staff will
soon be able to tour the site.
Activities and athletics are underway at the high school level.
As a part of his listening and learning tour, Dr. Baker spent yesterday at Fairhaven
Middle School. His day began with riding the school bus from his home to school,
and throughout the day he visited classrooms and talked with students and staff.

Dr. Baker responded to questions from the board.
2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Bashaw indicated that agenda item 2.2 contains an invoice from her employer,
Whatcom Community College. To avoid a conflict of interest per RCW 42.23.030, Ms.
Bashaw will recuse herself from voting on item 2.2 (Approval of Expenditures and
Payroll). Ms. Bashaw made a motion to vote on item 2.2 separately, which was seconded
by Ms. Rose. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13

Approval of Minutes of August 17, 2023 Regular Meeting and August 18, 2023
Special Meeting
Resolution 24-23, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Resolution 25-23, Approval of the Whatcom County Skills Center Feasibility Study
Policy 4260 Update, Use of School Facilities
Security Solutions NW, LLC Rider to Contract (#2122-139B)
Accent Counseling Addendum A to MOU (#2223-085A)
Amendment to 2023-24 Whatcom Discovery Program Interlocal Agreement (#2324002A)
OAC Services, Inc. Master Agreement (#2324-047)
HUB International Northwest, LLC Contract (#2324-051)
Northwest Educational Service District NWRDC/WSIPC Membership Agreement
(#2324-055)
Bellingham Technical College Running Start Program Agreement (#2324-056)
Communities in Schools of Whatcom-Skagit Agreement (#2324-057)
2

2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17

Whatcom CTE Dual Credit Consortium Memorandum of Agreement (#2324-059)
Whatcom County Interlocal Cooperative Agreement (#2324-061)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the following consent
agenda item:

2.2

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – August 2023
Affirmative votes: Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason, Ms. Rose.
Abstention: Ms. Bashaw.

3.0
3.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Mason thought the back-to-school staff event was so fun. The emcees did a great
job, and it was interesting to hear the Whatcom Middle School campus monitor’s
journey and how he ended up in his current position. The Community Transitions
(CT) open house was wonderful and she’s excited about the next CT facility. She was
impressed that her child’s bus driver was the one to call to share transportation plans,
rather than someone from the Transportation office. This will be her last year having
an elementary student!
• Mr. Benjamin noted that the board held a retreat the day after the last regular meeting,
and he appreciates that the board engages meaningfully in self-assessment. The
retreat was efficient and successful. He also attended the CT open house with his son,
a former CT student who was able to see his CT and high school special education
teachers. He unfortunately was out of town during the all-staff kickoff, which is
always one of his favorite events. The filing deadline for WSSDA elections is this
Saturday. If anyone on the board is interested in serving on a committee, he
encourages them to look at the WSSDA website.
• Ms. Rose thanked Mr. Benjamin for organizing the board’s self-assessment. She also
enjoyed the all-staff kickoff. She was able to attend the block party, and from the
Opportunity Council’s perspective it’s good to connect families with community. She
attended parent night at the high school last night. She shared that various means of
communication around the open house and block party were very much appreciated.
ParentSquare, email and reader boards were some of the communication channels that
have been helpful for her family.
• Ms. Bashaw shared that she will miss attending the all-staff kickoff, as well as other
district events, when she is no longer on the school board. She noted that League of
Women Voters election forums for school board candidates will be held in the next
few weeks.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler attended a recent private event and had the chance to talk with
Washington State Representative Alex Ramal about school funding. They are

3

thinking of looking at changes to the levy lid, but an overhaul of the school funding
structure is not expected.
4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

5.0
5.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Mason assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m.

5.2

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

