DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
January 18, 2023

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
January 18, 2023 – Options High School, 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgment:
Ms. Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged that this
meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coast Salish people.
Roll Call:
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Jenn Mason, Katie
Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). Director Douglas
Benjamin attended the meeting virtually via Zoom.
Audience:
• Beth McGinty thanked the board for listening to the students at last month’s board
meeting and their requests that the assistant principals be removed from the school
buildings. She is curious about the personnel recommendations contained in the
consent agenda for tonight’s meeting. She said two of the administrators who are
replacing the assistant principals are listed in the personnel recommendations, but
none of the assistant principals who were removed are listed. She wonders if those
changes will incur a cost that will be paid by taxpayers. Last month the board voted to
pay the legal fees of the three assistant principals, and she would like there to be
clarification about where that money comes from. She thinks the district’s response to
the civil lawsuit inferred that the victim is to blame for not reporting the incident
sooner, or for not using other avenues to report. The student is a victim, and that
response looked like victim blaming.
• Miguel Perry is a member of the Local 70 Carpenters Union based out of Mount
Vernon, Washington, representing approximately 2,000 members. Many of those
union members live in Whatcom County due to the location of the refineries here. He
invited the board to visit the training center in Burlington, which is available to
students or anyone who wants to pursue a career in carpentry. He shared that last year
he sent two emails in support of the district’s 2022 bond measure, including a request
for Local 70 volunteers to make phone calls to voters letting them know that Local 70
supported the bond. He hopes the district will hire contractors, who in turn will hire
responsible subcontractors who will provide good benefits to their employees.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• January is School Board Recognition Month. On behalf of the district’s students, staff
and community, Dr. Baker thanked the board for their work and dedication. He

•

•
•
•
•
•
•

introduced Brian Young, Squalicum High School teacher of the Culinary Arts
Academy. Mr. Young and culinary arts students presented the directors with pies that
they had baked. The board was also presented with poetry about salmon, which were
written by Columbia third grade students and displayed as a beautiful watercolor
poster.
Dr. Baker shared photos from the Kwanzaa event that was held at Bellingham High
School prior to winter break. It was the first time the district had held an event
celebrating African American history and culture in our country. The event was
supported by a grant and was a wonderful celebration that included food prepared and
served by our own high school culinary arts students.
Jan. 22 is Treaty Day, and some students will be attending a Treaty Day film festival
at the Pickford Theater on Jan. 21.
Dr. Baker shared photos from the annual Roosevelt Elementary School staff theatrical
performance, held prior to winter break. This year the staff presented “Secrets of the
Swamp” which included elaborate costumes and sets.
Construction on the new District Office continues, and Dr. Baker shared progress
captured from the construction site webcam.
Following the severe cold spell during winter break, some school facilities
experienced frozen pipes and flooding. Dr. Baker acknowledged the custodial and
maintenance staff who helped with the repairs and clean up.
A video update from the Sustainability Advisory Committee was viewed,
highlighting the work of the ongoing committee.
Today Dr. Baker met with the Student Advisory Committee to the Superintendent.
With the end of the first semester approaching, seniors are beginning to think more
about graduation.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8

Approval of Minutes of the Dec. 14, 2022 Regular Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – December 2022
Resolution 01-23, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Resolution 02-23, Acceptance of Alderwood Elementary School Rebuild Project
Resolution 03-23, Acceptance of Parkview Elementary School Rebuild Project
New District Office Change Order #02
Whatcom Family YMCA Partnership Agreement (#2223-101)
Washington State Department of Commerce – Early Learning Facility Grant
(#2223-102)
Department of Ecology Integrated Planning Grant Agreement (#2223-106)
Zervas Group Architects Agreement – Kulshan Middle School (#2223-107)
Personnel Recommendations

2.9
2.10
2.11

Unanimous affirmative vote.

2

3.0
3.1

3.2

4.0
4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

5.0
5.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Review and Discuss Possible Revisions to GPs 1-6
Governance Process Policies GP-1 through GP-6 are reviewed annually in January. After
discussion, it was agreed that no changes are needed at this time.
Revision to B/SR-3.1.1, Monitoring Response Form
It has been requested that section 1(a) of B/SR-3.1.1 be revised from “is in compliance”
to “is in compliance, with the acknowledgement that there is always more work to be
done.” Following discussion, Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Ms. Rose, to
approve the revision. Unanimous affirmative vote.
BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-1 report
that was prepared by Ms. Bashaw. Following discussion, Ms. Mason made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Rose, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment A).
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-10, Race and Equity
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-10 report
that was prepared by Ms. Bashaw. Following discussion, Ms. Mason made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Rose, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment B).
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-5, Communication and Counsel to the Board
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-5 (Attachment C). Ms. Diaz Hackler will provide a final summary version of this
document which will be submitted for approval at the February 15, 2023 regular meeting.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-7 (Attachment D). Ms. Diaz Hackler will provide a final summary version of this
document which will be submitted for approval at the February 15, 2023 regular meeting.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-9 (Attachment E). Ms. Diaz Hackler will provide a final summary version of this
document which will be submitted for approval at the February 15, 2023 regular meeting.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Bashaw had nothing to report.
• Ms. Mason knows that a lot of work continues to happen over winter break, and she
hopes that staff were able to take time off during the break.
• Ms. Rose met with a board member of the Bellingham Festival of Music today, who
spoke very highly of the Bellingham Public Schools.
• Mr. Benjamin enjoyed seeing the photos of the Roosevelt performance. His oldest
son, who is now 38, attended Roosevelt and performed in a Charlotte’s Web
performance. A few weeks ago, Mr. Benjamin was interviewed by a doctoral student
regarding policy governance, which helped him to see how far our district has come
in our policy governance journey. He also met with a school board director from the
3

5.2

Granite Falls School District, who also serves as the legislative representative. That
individual would like to see WSSDA move away from weighted votes on issues, as
he believes that leads to larger districts having more influence than smaller, more
rural districts on items that are being voted on.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler had nothing to report.
GP-7.2 – 2022-23 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
Due to a change in his work schedule, Mr. Benjamin is hoping the board will consider
moving its monthly regular meetings from Wednesday to Thursday evenings. After
discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion to amend the school board calendar by moving
the regular meetings from Wednesdays at 6 p.m. to Thursdays at 6 p.m., beginning
Thursday, February 16, 2023. Unanimous affirmative vote.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:49 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

