DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 20, 2023

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
July 20, 2023 – Options High School, 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgment:
Ms. Diaz Hackler (President) called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged
that this meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Lummi people and
Nooksack tribe.
Roll Call:
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President),
Jennifer Mason and Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
• Jonna Gillham is a Fairhaven Middle School student who just finished seventh grade.
She knows school will be different next year due to budget cuts and is disappointed
that the Future Problem Solvers (FPS) program, which she has participated in, is one
of the programs being cut. Students in FPS learn about many topics. This year many
students went to the FPS competition at Warm Beach Camp, and one team qualified
to attend the international competition and placed tenth place there. FPS is an
amazing program that challenges students and funding FPS should be a priority.
• Amanda Hansen is the mother of two children. Her child attends Roosevelt
Elementary School and she learned her child experienced bullying at school. She
looks forward to working with the staff at Roosevelt to prevent it from happening
again.
• Abby Aiken will be an eighth-grade student at Fairhaven Middle School next fall and
believes the discontinuation of the FPS program goes against everything that The
Bellingham Promise stands for. Students will be unable to access a higher level of
learning. FPS helps students learn to solve issues within the community and is the
only highly capable program at Fairhaven Middle School. Please provide funding for
the FPS program.
• Julia Wolgamot will be an eighth-grade student at Fairhaven Middle School next fall.
At the beginning of sixth grade, she didn’t like FPS because it was hard and
challenged her. FPS has allowed her to focus on innovative ideas and the district
should be growing the program, not cutting it.
• Rebecca Krueger is the parent of a Fairhaven Middle School student. She is
concerned about FPS not being funded next year at Fairhaven. It is an extraordinary
program that helps students develop with the outcomes of The Bellingham Promise. It

1.5

is not equitable for students to not have access to the program. When we fail to fund a
quality program, we are discriminating against students who are not able to afford
outside resources for enrichment. Education happens inside and outside of your
buildings. Not everyone can afford private tutors and camps. Parents with means will
find a way to fill the gap, while others will be left behind. Please put funding where
it’s needed.
• Pat Gillham is the father of two students and noted that this has been a studentinitiated plea to fund FPS.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• The draft budget is available online for all who would like to review it. He
commended Chief Financial Officer Kathryn Weilage and her team, as well as the
Executive Team and other staff who have put a lot of work into budget preparation.
He shared a slide outlining the Materials, Supplies and Operational Costs (MSOCS),
which is another example of how the state does not fully fund education. He
highlighted some of the impacts as a result of updated budget information from the
state. Contributing factors include a decrease in regionalization, cost of living
adjustments and a decrease in enrollment. District staff continues to work to increase
funds coming in by maximizing all available opportunities. One major labor group is
still bargaining. We are gearing up for two local replacement levies in February 2024.
Dr. Baker responded to questions from the board related to budget.
• There are many exciting capital projects across the district:
o The new inclusive Silver Beach playground is being built.
o Tennis courts are being remodeled and expanded at Bellingham and
Squalicum high schools. When complete, all three high schools will have six
lighted courts.
o The addition of four additional classrooms at Kulshan Middle School, as well
as the first middle school turf field.
o Exterior painting, as well as parking and site improvements, at Cordata
Elementary School.
o Sunnyland garden space, as well as outdoor classrooms for other elementary
schools.
o The new District Office, which some school board members toured today.
o A temporary Community Transitions space at the Whatcom Educational
Credit Union space in the Birchwood neighborhood.
o Planning for the 15th elementary school off Bakerview Road.
o Over the past few weeks, attention has been drawn to the new reader board at
Lowell Elementary. It is common for schools to have electronic reader boards,
and we will continue to process the feedback from the community.
• Students are participating in summer school programs at various sites.
• Some staff are on vacation, but there are also a lot of staff who are busy preparing for
the new school year.
• The all-staff kickoff is scheduled for Wed., August 30.
Dr. Baker responded to questions from the board.

2

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Bashaw indicated that agenda item 2.2 contains an invoice from her employer,
Whatcom Community College. To avoid a conflict of interest per RCW 42.23.030, Ms.
Bashaw will recuse herself from voting on item 2.2 (Approval of Expenditures and
Payroll). Ms. Bashaw made a motion to vote on item 2.2 separately, which was seconded
by Ms. Mason. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Ms. Rose, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19
2.20
2.21
2.22
2.23
2.24

Approval of Minutes of June 15, 2023 Regular Meeting
Resolution 19-23, 2023-24 School Board Regular Meeting Schedule
Resolution 20-23, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Resolution 21-23, Rejection of All Bids Received for Dairy Products Bid #2324-0553
Hire Appraiser for Property Appraisal
Policy 5011 Update, Sexual Harassment of Staff Prohibited
Meal Price Increase Proposal for 2023-24
Zayo Enterprise Solutions Phone Line Agreement (#2223-141)
Cascade Bicycle Club Contract (#2223-215)
City of Bellingham Housing and Human Services Financial Assistance Agreement
(#2223-221)
State of Washington Department of Health Grant Award and Agreement (#2223224)
ACCO Engineered Systems, Inc. Agreement (#2223-225)
Faber Construction Corporation Agreement – Kulshan Middle School Addition
(#2223-226)
Imagine Learning Price Quote (#2324-010A and #2324-010B)
Whatcom Health Department Behavioral Contract Amendment (#2324-013)
Porter Foster Rorick LLP Agreement (#2324-014)
Jostens and Lithtex Northwest Agreements for Services (#2324-015, #2324-016 and
#2324-017)
Jennifer Rix Agreement for Services (#2324-020)
Northwest Educational Service District 189 Contract – Mental Health (#2324-021)
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation Agreement (#2324-022)
Vamos Outdoors Project Agreement for Services (#026-2223)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contract
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the following consent
agenda item:

2.2

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – June 2023
Affirmative votes: Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason, Ms. Rose.
3

Abstention: Ms. Bashaw.
3.0
3.1

APPOINT LEGISLATIVE REPRESENTATIVE
Appoint School Board Legislative Representative
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to nominate Ms. Diaz Hackler for the position of
legislative representative. Ms. Diaz Hackler agreed to serve. Unanimous affirmative vote.

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING REPORTS
Board Response to Monitoring Report – EL-2, Organizational Continuity
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-2 report
that was prepared by Ms. Diaz Hackler. Following discussion, Ms. Mason made a
motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the monitoring response document
(Attachment A). Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring Report – Ends 1, 2, 3 (Combined)
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the Ends 1, 2, 3
(Combined) report that was prepared by Ms. Diaz Hackler. Following discussion, Ms.
Mason made a motion, seconded by Ms. Rose, to approve the monitoring response
document (Attachment B). Unanimous affirmative vote.

4.2

5.0
5.1

5.2
5.3

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
GP-7 Agenda Planning
No changes were made to the policy, but at a future retreat the board will discuss item
2(c) of the policy.
GP-7.1 Board Self-Assessment
No changes.
GP-7.2 Annual Board Agenda (2023-24)
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve GP-7.2, Annual
Board Agenda for 2023-24. Unanimous approval.

6.0
6.1
6.2
6.3

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
GP-7.2 – 2022-23 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.
Annual Report on Asset Preservation Program – no action needed.
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Mr. Benjamin thought it was fun to tour the new District Office construction site
earlier today. There will be an amazing amount of natural light in the building. There
are very few individual offices and more common workspace, allowing for flexibility.
• Ms. Mason’s daughter received her first birthday party invitation from a classmate,
and it was fun to see that other students knew how to communicate with her and
include her. It shows how inclusivity and integration has affects even outside of the
classroom.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler also enjoyed the new District Office tour and noted that one beam
weighs approximately 3,000 pounds! The piece of property seems bigger than she
thought.

7.0
7.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a
4

8.0
8.1
7.2

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:59 p.m.

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

5

ATTACHMENT A
7/20/23 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-2, Organizational Continuity
Date Report Submitted: 5/18/2023
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6/15/2023
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance, with the
policy.
acknowledgement that there is always
b. is making reasonable progress towards
more work to be done.
achieving the goals.
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance, except for item(s) noted.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
c. is not making reasonable progress toward
progress is expected in some areas.*
compliance.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
d. cannot be determined*
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
The Aspiring Administrators program continues to be an excellent method to train, develop and
retain a robust cohort from which to promote new leadership.
There is ample evidence that the superintendent ensures regular policy development and
maintenance regarding leadership.
The board is impressed with all of the work accomplished last year, especially the safety and
security capital improvement projects.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
None.
4. Comments on the report itself.
Great report – easy to read and we appreciate the bold font for new items.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
None.
1

ATTACHMENT B
7/20/23 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: Ends 1, 2, 3 (Combined)
Date Report Submitted: 5/18/2023
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6/15/2023
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance, with the
policy.
acknowledgement that there is always more
b. is making reasonable progress towards
work to be done.
achieving the goals.
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance, except for item(s) noted.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
c. is not making reasonable progress toward
progress is expected in some areas.*
compliance.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
d. cannot be determined*
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
The board is impressed with lots of evidence in this report. A few highlights include:
• The number of students participating in sports is back to pre-pandemic rates.
• Great progress expanding Promise K to full year and an inclusive preschool model with
developmental preschool.
• Half of high school students enrolled in world language courses.
• Graduation rates up for all groups of students.
We would like to end with our belief that there is solid evidence that the Superintendent and his
team are developing a very broad range of new, innovative, improving programs and educational
strategies to achieve the outcomes specified in The Bellingham Promise. The report offers data to
show that these are working.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
The COVID-19 pandemic impacted student performance and was out of anyone’s control. It will
be of interest to see continued progress to make up and surpass those deficits.

1

ATTACHMENT B
7/20/23 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: Ends 1, 2, 3 (Combined)
Date Report Submitted: 5/18/2023
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6/15/2023
4. Comments on the report itself.
The board appreciates continuing efforts to refine the report with well organized and solid
information. Well done.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
None.

2

