BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 13, 2013
At 4:30 p.m., the Board joined families and community members for a groundbreaking ceremony
at Birchwood Elementary School, 3200 Pinewood Avenue, Bellingham, Washington.
Immediately following the ceremony, the Board met in regular session in the Board Room of the
District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
At 5:30 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, President Ken Gass,
Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Ruth Rasmussen. Director Kelly Bashaw had
previously notified President Ken Gass that she would be out of town and unable to attend the
meeting.
Audience
The following parents addressed the Board regarding the district’s Highly Capable Learners
(HCL) program: Vicki Reardon, Hilary Thomas, Quenby Peterson, Anita White, Michael Talley,
Carrie Schwartz, Eric Richey, Anne Wright, Veronica Douglas, Shannon McCarty, and David
Flanagan. The group distributed handouts relating to HCL. Common concerns were: not enough
middle school staff members with HCL training; disparate funding levels between HCL and
other programs; HCL students are not being challenged regularly and consistently; and there is a
need for differentiated instruction and self-contained classrooms. The parents urged the district
to create a vision and a plan for HCL students and to form a committee in the coming school
year to work on these concerns. Additionally, they would like an HCL program review and have
offered financial support to cover the cost.
Ken Gass thanked the group for their comments.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Scott Stockburger moved and Steve Smith seconded approval of the consent agenda, with noted
amendments to the minutes of the May 23, 2013 meeting. The motion carried unanimously.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 13, 2013
Page 2 of 8
During general discussion of consent agenda items, Greg Baker outlined the provisions and
purpose of the Professional Services Agreement between the district and Sound Strategy
Technology Group, L.L.C.
Ken Gass thanked staff members for their exceptional work on Policy Review 1310.
Greg Baker said that staff, particularly Tanya Rowe, performed extensive, exemplary work with
a focus on how administrative policies are written within a policy governance framework.
Approval of Minutes
Scott Stockburger requested the May 23, 2013 minutes be amended to correct a transposition of
his and Steve Smith’s names in their respective School Directors’ Reports.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, May 24, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, May 31, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, June 7, 2013

($160,000.00)
($3,240,000.00)
($117,500.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, investment, May 24, 2013
WCIP, investment, May 31, 2013
WCIP, investment, June 7, 2013

$12,300.00
$10,450.00
$12,600.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, May 24, 2013
WCIP, investment, May 31, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, June 3, 2013
WCIP, investment, May 7, 2013

$196,000.00
$37,000.00
($1,913,000.00)
$27,000.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, May 24, 2013
WCIP, investment, May 31, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, June 7, 2013

($25,760.00)
$10,980.00
($20,170.00)

PRIVATE PURPOSE TRUST FUND
WCIP, withdrawal June 7, 2013

($1,232.00)

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, May, 2013
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Approval of Resolutions and Contracts
Action on resolutions and contracts as submitted.
a) Resolution 13-13, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 13, 2013
Page 3 of 8
b) Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services between Ferndale School
District and Bellingham School District for the 2013–14 school year for Bellingham to
provide a teacher of visually impaired to provide an educational program for Ferndale
students with visual impairment.
c) Agreement with Sound Strategy Technology Group, L.L.C. and Bellingham School
District for Sound Strategy Technology Group to provide professional services in the area
of educational technology.
Approval of Surplus Items
Action on surplus as submitted.
Approval of Administrative Policies
Action on administrative policies as follows:
a) Policy 1310, Policy Adoption, Manuals and Administrative Procedures
b) Policy and Procedure, 4130, Title I Parental Involvement
c) Policy 4215, Use of Tobacco and Nicotine Substances
d) Policy and Procedure 4260, Use of School Facilities
e) Policy and Procedure 4400, Election Activities
Approval of Out-of-State Travel
Action on Out-of-State Travel as submitted.
a) Sehome High School staff to attend the Jostens Renaissance National Conference in
Scottsdale, Arizona, July 11–13, 2013. Expenses will be paid for with school professional
development funds.
b) Northern Heights Elementary School staff to attend the International Baccalaureate
Conference of the Americas in New Orleans, Louisiana, July 17–22, 2013. This staff
member will join other staff approved at an earlier Board meeting.
Approval of Student Trips
Action on Student Trips as submitted.
a) Shuksan Middle School leadership students to attend the CISPUS Leadership Camp in
Randall, Washington, August 5-8, 2013. Expenses will be paid with ASB funds.
b) Sehome High School Girls Swim Team to travel for annual training to Victoria, British
Columbia, August 27–August 29, 2013. Expenses will be paid from past fund raising
activities.
c) Wade King Elementary School 5th grade students to attend Mountain School, October 7–
9, 2013. Funding is still being determined.
d) Sehome High School Girls Basketball Team to attend White River High School
basketball tournament in Buckley, Washington, July 12–14, 2013. Expenses will be paid
by the students participating.
e) Sehome High School Track Team to attend a track/cross country retreat at Orcas IslandMoran State Park, July 25–29, 2013. Expenses will be paid by the students participating.
f) Sehome High School Wrestling Team to attend Snohomish Wrestling Camp in
Snohomish, Washington, June 24–27, 2013. Expenses will be paid by the students
participating.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 13, 2013
Page 4 of 8
g) Sehome High School Football Team to attend Oregon State Football Camp in Corvallis,
Oregon, June 21–24, 2013. Expenses will be paid by the students participating.
h) Sehome High School Dance Team to attend DCA Team Camp at Seattle University, June
28–July 1, 2013. Expenses will be paid by the students participating.
i) Sehome High School Cheer Team to attend NCA Cheer Camp at Great Wolf Lodge in
Mound, Washington, August 9–12, 2013. Expenses will be paid by the students
participating.
Approval of Personal Services Contracts
Action on personal services contracts as submitted.
a) Dawn Christiana to provide Guided Language Acquisition Design (GLAD) preparation,
training and collaboration, June 28, 29, and July 8–11, 2013.
b) Angela Kiser to provide technical, lighting, sound, and projection technology for a
Squalicum High School PTSA rental, June 13, 2013.
c) Coral Marchant to serve as a cello coach from October 2012 to current.
d) Sonya Morrison to serve as Key Club Advisory for Sehome High School for the 2012–13
school year.
e) Marc Whitlock to provide professional development services from December 1, 2012
through June 20, 2013.
Action on Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
POLICY GOVERANCE MONITORING REPORT
Monitoring Report EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
The Board heard a monitoring report on EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent.
Following discussion, Camille Hackler moved and Steve Smith seconded the Board’s
confirmation that the Superintendent is in compliance [Nos.1, 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d(i)], and working
towards compliance [Nos. 2d(ii) and 2d(iii)] with Monitoring Report EL-1. The motion carried
unanimously.
Monitoring Report EL-2, Organizational Continuity
The Board heard a monitoring report on EL-2, Organizational Continuity.
Greg Baker, referring to EL-2, Item I, (The Superintendent shall not fail to…ensure that at least
one other executive staff member is capable of assuming Superintendent responsibilities on an
emergency basis), said he wanted to clarify that the district has multiple senior leaders who are
well versed in the responsibilities of the Superintendent’s position and could take over in an
emergency situation.
Steve Smith moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the Board’s confirmation that the
Superintendent is in compliance with Monitoring Report EL-2. The motion carried unanimously.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 13, 2013
Page 5 of 8
Ken Gass noted any recommendations for changes in Monitoring Reports EL-1 or EL-2 would
be addressed at the next Board meeting.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Camille Hackler reported on the following recent activities:
 Silver Beach Elementary School Barbeque
 Parkview Elementary School meeting on May 28 to discuss the benefits and challenges
of a complete rebuild versus remodeling the school.
 District Retirement Dinner
 Breakfast meeting with the Superintendent
 Communities in Schools improvisational theatre event
 Squalicum High School PTSA Meeting
 Alderwood Elementary School Board site visit, Multicultural Children’s Festival, and
Field Day
 Community Transitions graduation
 Bellingham High School Awards Ceremony
 Birchwood Elementary School Groundbreaking Ceremony
Scott Stockburger responded to audience members’ comments regarding the district’s HCL
program. He indicated as a parent of an HCL student currently enrolled in the district, his
family’s experiences have been similar to those shared by audience members. He agrees the
program is not working, particularly at the middle and high school levels, and he favors the
formation of a committee of parents of HCL students who will work closely with the
superintendent and staff.
Dr. Stockburger also briefly discussed the process leading to the recent decision to close
Larrabee Elementary School at the end of the 2013-14 school year.
Steve Smith reported that he and Ken Gass completed their research with regard to board
reporting software and decided to stay with the current version of BoardDocs for the coming
school year.
Ken Gass reported on the following recent activities:
 Alderwood Elementary School Multicultural Children’s Festival
 Bikes for Books event sponsored by the Masons
 Community Transitions graduation
 He and Steve Smith have created a model to select comparable school districts for
comparison purposes as part of their work on the Superintendent’s contract.
 As noted by Steve Smith, following a multi-step research process, it is appropriate to
maintain the contract with BoardDocs for another school year.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 13, 2013
Page 6 of 8
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Greg Baker commented on the following:
 He expressed appreciation to the parents who addressed the Board regarding the HCL
program. He indicated the Board, administrators, and staff are committed to serving all
students and will continue to work to improve those efforts.
 Much of the teaching staff have been hired, with very few Reduction-in-Force (RIF)
letters issued this year. Other staffing changes either have occurred or will occur in the
next few weeks.
 The next School Board meeting will include a study session on the budget.
 The Community Transitions graduation ceremony was last night. The remaining four
high school graduations will take place in the coming week.
NEW BUSINESS
Camille Hackler said the Washington State Legislative Assembly is scheduled for this fall. She
recommended the Board take time before then to discuss relevant issues.
Ken Gass said he has been asked to participate in a Washington State School Directors’
Association (WSSDA) pilot focused on policy governance. This will allow the district to work
with policy governance experts who will provide useful feedback on our policy governance
model.
Steve Smith said Policy Governance Monitoring Report EL-1 was relevant in terms of the
Larrabee Elementary School closure process. In the context of EL-1, he said, the Superintendent
is in compliance and performed according to the Board’s expectations.
In response to comments from HCL parents, Dr. Smith said he cannot disagree with the concerns
raised. He suggested that future consideration be given to a model that measures not only current
academic placement, but also asks if students are demonstrating academic growth.
Ken Gass said the Board should consider scheduling a study session to address concerns raised
by HCL parents. Topics would include current law; funding sources; best practices; and
advantages of clustering versus differentiation.
Scott Stockburger noted that while school districts depend heavily on test scores and outcomes,
perhaps a parent “customer satisfaction survey” would be a useful tool.
CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Scott Stockburger assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was good.
Study Session
President Ken Gass adjourned the meeting at 6:55 p.m. for a study session on facilities planning.
Dr. Baker said this presentation on facilities planning follows a year-long process to keep the
board updated and engaged in this work.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 13, 2013
Page 7 of 8
On Feb. 8, 2013, Dr. Baker received a recommendation from a 35-member Facilities Planning
Task Force with broad representation throughout our community. Since that time, staff have
been researching, refining and planning for the potential projects to recommend for a bond in
November 2013.
Dr. Baker reviewed each of the following proposed projects and the board asked questions and
discussed each one.
High Schools
 Rebuild Sehome High School, which was built in 1966 and has not had any major
improvements. It is in very poor condition. $73 million.
 Build an Innovative/Options High School. For 20 years, Options High School students
have been in portables. They need a permanent learning environment that provides more
flexibility than a traditional high school and helps improve their graduation rate. Our
current thinking is to build at the Franklin Street location and adjacent district warehouse
property. $21 million.
 Replace soggy fields that are unusable for physical education classes, athletics and
community recreation much of the year in our wet weather with synthetic turf at Sehome
(included in construction project) and football fields at Bellingham and Squalicum high
schools. $5 million.
Elementary Schools
 Rebuild Happy Valley Elementary School which faces a number of problems, including
inadequate electrical, old plumbing, and poor heating/ventilation. The school also has
some structural and energy efficiency issues. $19 million.
 Renovate Lowell Elementary School with the addition of a gym, cafeteria and elevator.
$6 million.
 Renovate Parkview Elementary School with a separate cafeteria and gym to solve
scheduling issues and make minor improvements. $4 million.
Safety and Support
 Improve school safety and security for $2 million.
 Spend $5 million over the next several years to maintain our investments with new roofs,
windows, painting, flooring, energy efficiency upgrades at Roosevelt, Sunnyland,
Alderwood, Roosevelt, Carl Cozier and Silver Beach elementary schools, Fairhaven and
Kulshan middle schools; and Bellingham and Squalicum high schools.
 Make the existing District Office on Dupont Street safe with seismic improvements and
renovations to better serve the needs of staff, students and families. The District Office
was built in 1908 and has not had any major upgrades. Voters approved seismic work for
the District Office in 2006, but district staff helped make a decision to use that money for
rebuilding Birchwood Elementary School first. $17 million.
 Update the Transportation Facility, which was built in the 1950s and is in poor physical
condition and is energy inefficient. Current work space has inadequate flooring and only

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 13, 2013
Page 8 of 8




one lift. Issues include exhaust ventilation concerns, poorly insulated walls, roofing and
inefficient heating. $2 million.
Build a central kitchen on Sehome’s campus that would provide healthier food, including
some made-from-scratch meals, to students at all schools. Currently, our schools mainly
serve reheated meals. $4 million.
Fund facilities planning and improvements for outdoor learning experiences for students
at the district’s existing Gordon Carter Environmental Education Conservation Site at
Lake Whatcom. An investment of $2 million would support phase one of planning for
future construction at the site.

Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations Ron Cowan reviewed the district’s existing
bond debt, including outstanding principal, debt structure and comparable tax rates. Compared to
similar school districts in the county, region and state, Bellingham’s current total rate is one of
the lowest. Interest rates remain at a historic low. If the projects previously discussed are on a
bond in November, the estimated total tax rate for schools would be $4.61, still keeping our
district among the lower tax rates compared to Whatcom, Skagit and Snohomish School
Districts. The estimated bond tax rate for facilities would result in an increase of approximately
48 cents per $1,000 or $96 per year for the owner of a home with an assessed value of $200,000.
Mr. Cowan also shared the good news that we could refinance some existing bonds for a lower
interest rate this fall, saving taxpayers more money, equivalent to approximately 2 cents per
$1,000 assessed value.
Dr. Baker asked if the Board had any remaining questions that had not been addressed or if any
additional information was needed before the next meeting. Board members responded that their
questions had been answered and no additional information was requested at this time. Dr. Baker
said he plans to prepare a bond resolution for the June 27, 2013 meeting that consists of the
projects discussed tonight.
The regular meeting was reconvened at 9:45 p.m.
Adjournment
President Gass adjourned the regular meeting at 9:50 p.m.

