BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 28, 2013
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session February 28, 2013 in the
Board Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
At 7 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, President
Ken Gass, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
Audience
Squalicum High School teacher and Bellingham Education Association Vice President Stan
Kreft addressed the Board regarding the calendar for the 2013–14 school year. He expressed
concern with the lack of planning time for teachers and the elementary/middle school conference
time. He also shared concern about the negative impact of the after-Labor Day school start date
on students who take the Advanced Placement tests. He feels our high school students are at a
disadvantage because they have less instructional time to prepare for the AP exams than students
in other district who start school in mid-August. As part of the Calendar Committee, he feels that
families and staff need more information on this topic and advocated that future calendars be
planned that would best benefit students.
School Board Directors’ Reports
Steve Smith attended a book sale at Sunnyland Elementary School and participated in an exit
meeting with the Washington State Auditors.
Scott Stockbuger viewed a video presented by Sugata Mitra on an educational innovative idea
called ―School in the Cloud.‖ He received a comment from a community member about a school
being used as a church. Dr. Stockburger explained to the patron that our facilities are available
for rent. He expressed concern that there is much focus on Larrabee Elementary School and not
on the deteriorating condition of Sehome High School, which impacts many more students. He
believes that Sehome is not functionally efficient and its many entrances and exits pose safety

School Board Minutes
February 28, 2013
Page 2 of 6
issues for students and staff. He would also like to see more encouragement for the Robotics
Team.
Camille Hackler attended the Shuksan Middle School Community Family Night. The event
included a variety of sessions from bike repair to how parents can support students at school.
Kelly Bashaw also attended the Family Night at Shuksan Middle School. The event was attended
by more than 300 people and included interpreters of four different languages and a daycare. She
also attended the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) event at Squalicum High
School on Feb. 23.
Ken Gass joined Dr. Smith at the Washington State Auditors exit interview and reported there
were no significant findings. Dr. Gass expressed appreciation to staff for their hard work to make
sure the audits each year are clean. He attended a Carl Cozier Elementary School reading
program and a night of board games at Lowell Elementary School. President Gass visited Mike
Anderson, director of Building and Grounds, and toured the facility. He also visited Cordata
Elementary School and watched as students prepared for Math Olympiad.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Greg Baker presented at a Washington Educational Research Association P-3
Symposium Feb. 28. He shared information about how Bellingham Public Schools adopted fulltime kindergarten and is moving toward establishing a pre-kindergarten program.
Dr. Baker updated the Board on the transformer fire at Sehome High School in the early morning
hours of Feb. 26. He expressed appreciation for Central Office staff, Building and Grounds staff,
Sehome High School staff, and Food Service staff for their hard work in communicating
information to families and dealing with the many facets caused by lack of power at the school.
Dr. Baker is working with Principal Phyllis Textor to determine whether the day should be made
up or to request a waiver from the state. The executive team will consider the advice from
Sehome High School before making a recommendation. In response to a question, Assistant
Superintendent Cowan indicated insurance would cover a portion of the cost, with the balance
coming from reserves.
Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations Ron Cowan updated the Board on the
possible impact of sequestration by the federal government. It could result in a loss of funding
for some of our federally sponsored programs and could impact the district budget for 2013–14
school year.
Dr. Baker gave a facilities update. He has met with the Larrabee Elementary School PTA Board
and commented they are a group of very thoughtful parents who want the best for the school,
neighborhood and district. At the request of parents and staff to have answers about a possible
timeline for retiring Larrabee, Dr. Baker plans to form a group to consider this issue. No
decisions regarding if Larrabee will be retired have been made at this time. Future meetings will
be held with Larrabee families, the staff at all three southside elementary schools, the Happy
Valley Neighborhood Association, and the City Council.

School Board Minutes
February 28, 2013
Page 3 of 6

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw moved and Steve Smith seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of February 14, 2013 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, investment, February 8, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, February 14, 2013

($109,000.00)
($96,000.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, investment, February 8, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, February 14, 2013

$1,000.00
($102,800.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, February 8, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, February 14, 2013

$8,000.00
$5,000.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, investment, February 8, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, February 14, 2013

($19,970.00)
($5,650.00)

Approval of Surplus Items
Action on surplus items as submitted.
Approval of Resolutions
Action on resolutions as follows:
a) Resolution 2-13, Authorized District Signatures (Birchwood Elementary School
Reconstruction)
b) Resolution 3-13, Assurance of Racial Balance (Birchwood Elementary School
Reconstruction)
c) Resolution 4-13, Request to Transfer Funds From the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Approval of Educational Specifications for Birchwood Elementary School Reconstruction
Action on the Educational Specifications for Birchwood Elementary School reconstruction as
prepared by Dykeman Architects.
Approval of Agreements and Contracts
Action on Agreement for Supplementary Student Services between Bellingham School District
and Northwest Educational Service District 189.

School Board Minutes
February 28, 2013
Page 4 of 6

Approval of Administrative Policies and Procedures
Action on Administrative Policies and Procedures as submitted.
a) Policy 2410, High School Graduation Requirements (revised)
Approval of 2013–2014 School Calendar
Action on the 2013–2014 School Calendar as submitted.
Approval on Out-of-State Travel
Action on Out-of-State Travel as submitted.
a) Wade King Elementary School staff to attend the Teachers College Writing Institute in
New York, June 24–28, 2013 or August 5–9, 2013. Staff will apply to the institute and
attendance dates will be determined when the applications have been processed. Funding
for this travel will be from ISD funds, building professional development funds, and PTA
funds.
b) Staff travel to Arlington, Virginia, March 4–5, 2013. Selected staff have been chosen by
the National Science Foundation to be grant reviewers. All travel expenses will be paid
by the National Science Foundation.
Approval of Student Trips
Action on Student Trips as submitted.
a) Sehome High School students to participate on the annual Zodiac Voyage, May 31–June
2, 2013. Funding for this trip will come from student tuition and a private scholarship
donation.
b) Sehome High School Sailing Team to travel to the Sailing National Fleet Racing
Championships in Chicago, Illinois, May 9–13, 2013. Expenses for the trip will be paid
from fundraising and team dues.
c) Sehome High School Sailing Team to travel to the Sailing National Team Racing
Championships in Tampa, Florida, May 23–27, 2013. Expenses for the trip will be paid
from fundraising and team dues.
d) Sehome High School Track and Field Team to attend the Centennial Invitational in
Portland, Oregon, April 26–28, 2013. Expenses will be paid from fundraising efforts.
e) Sehome High School students to attend the First Robotic Competitions. The first
competition will be in Ellensburg, Washington, March 20–23, 2013 and the next in
Seattle, Washington, March 27–30, 2013. The cost of the trips will be paid by students
and sponsorships.
f) Bellingham, Sehome and Squalicum high schools Sailing Teams to travel to sailing
competitions. The first competition is at San Juan Island, April 5–7, 2013 and the second
competition is April 19–21, 2013. Expenses for the trip will be paid from fundraising and
team dues.
g) Squalicum High School German students to attend an immersion camp in Carnation,
Washington, March 15–16, 2013. Expenses will be paid from student personal funds.
Approval of Personal Services Contracts
Action on personal services contracts as submitted.

School Board Minutes
February 28, 2013
Page 5 of 6
a) Joyce Jones to serve as Home and Hospital Tutor on an as-needed basis, January 2013–
August 31, 2013.
b) Diane Gerner to serve as sign language interpreter on an as-needed basis February 28–
August 31, 2013.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.

POLICY GOVERNANCE MONITORING REPORT
Monitoring Report for EL-8, District Calendar
The monitoring report for EL-8, District Calendar, was presented by Executive Administrator for
Teaching and Learning Rob McElroy and Executive Director of Human Resources Nora
Klewiada. Mr. McElroy and Ms. Klewiada reviewed the three major areas of EL-8, which
include:
a) Preparation of a calendar that optimizes instructional time and days, affects whole child
learning, and considers typical family constraints.
b) Provides adequate collaboration and professional development time for staff to pursue
effective instruction.
c) Timely communication of calendar and calendar changes to families, staff and the board.
They reviewed the district’s multi-step process for school calendar development, input and
adoption, which includes the work of a Bellingham Education Association/District calendar
committee. The committee includes certificated staff and principals from all levels, a high school
student, parent/community member and a district administration representative. The
recommended calendar is presented to the superintendent before presenting to the Board of
Directors for adoption. The method in which the calendar, once approved, is communicated to all
stakeholders was also reviewed.
The board discussed the many complex issues surrounding the calendar adoption. The board
thanked Mr. McElroy and Ms. Klewiada for submitting an excellent summary of the process for
developing the calendar. They will consider if the superintendent is in compliance or working
toward compliance at the March 14, 2013 School Board meeting.

NEW BUSINESS
President Gass distributed a draft resolution urging the Washington State Legislature to address
K-12 funding. This resolution will be placed on the agenda for the March 14 School Board
meeting for the Directors’ consideration.
Superintendent Baker has scheduled several presentations to staff and community groups on the
facilities and invited Board members to join him. Staff and Facilities Planning Task Force
members will also be in attendance.

School Board Minutes
February 28, 2013
Page 6 of 6
March 6, 5:30 p.m.—Larrabee Family Meeting at Larrabee gym (Scott Stockburger and
Steve Smith will attend)
March 7, 7:00 p.m.—Happy Valley Neighborhood Association Meeting at Larrabee gym
(Camille Hackler and Ken Gass will attend)
March 19, 5:30 p.m.—General Community Facilities Input Meeting at Whatcom Middle
School (Kelly Bashaw and Steve Smith will attend)
Executive Director Tanya Rowe is working with Board members to plan future linkages and will
update the Board when more information is available.
Several members of the Board will be attending the WASA/WSSDA Legislative Conference in
Olympia, March 10–11, 2013.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Kelly Bashaw assessed the meeting. Her overall assessment was good.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:10 p.m.

