BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 8, 2013
The Board of Directors held a public hearing at 5:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 8, 2013 in Larrabee
Elementary School’s gym, 1409 18th Street, Bellingham, WA 98225. The purpose of the public
hearing was to receive verbal or written public comment on the possible retirement/closure of
Larrabee Elementary School for use as a K–5 elementary school and on the school district’s
analysis of the effects of the proposed closure.

OPENING ITEMS
At 6 p.m. President Ken Gass called the public hearing to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, President
Ken Gass, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry and time keeper Tanya Rowe.
President Ken Gass introduced Superintendent Greg Baker. Dr. Baker reviewed the work of the
Facilities Planning Task Force, their recommendations, and his analysis and rationale for the
retirement of Larrabee Elementary School as a K–5 elementary school. Dr. Baker also
acknowledged the district’s commitment to continuing discussions for the repurposing of the
school for another instructional use.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Dr. Gass opened the public comment portion of the meeting. Each speaker had three minutes to
speak as per the regular Board procedures.
Jeremy Quinn supports keeping Larrabee open. Even though Larrabee has a greater number of
students qualifying for free/reduced meals than Wade King, the academic scores of the two
schools are comparable.
Wendy Scherrer supports keeping Larrabee open. She cited the Bellingham Comprehensive Plan
that supports retaining neighborhood schools.
Rebeca (no last name submitted) noted that even though Larrabee is the most impoverished
school on the southside, students are still testing at the state average and wants the school to
remain open.

School Board Minutes of Public Hearing
May 8, 2013
Page 2 of 5

Michelle Remley said schools smaller than 300 students save the district money because are
more committed to their community and will create more community-minded adults.
Kim Quinn spoke in support of small schools and reviewed statistics on the benefits of small
schools. She asked the board to determine what factors should be considered for a functional
school and that the community should agree on these factors.
Barbara Perry’s children first attended Happy Valley but she did not like having her children
there as it was too large. She feels small schools are very successful and that those who attend
them stay more connected to their school years later.
Harriet Arklely has been a teacher and elementary principal at both large and small schools. She
felt community involvement and attention to individual students is important and Larrabee has
both.
Laura Plant lives in the Larrabee neighborhood and feels Larrabee is a special school, but also
feels there are a lot of special schools in this community because teachers and parents make a
school special. From a school district perspective, they must consider factors such as enrollment
and equity.
Aundrea McBride has attended many meetings and stressed the need to find creative solutions to
solve the problems of the school. She hopes there will be an opportunity for the board to hear
other ideas before making their decision.
Shirley Forslof said Larrabee has been a good school for her grandchildren. Larrabee has the
same programs as bigger schools but the teachers get to know each child better—it is more of a
community. Larrabee has enrichment programs after school. She encouraged the board to
renovate Larrabee and keep it open.
Rogan Jones states that Larrabee is an asset to the community. The community broadly supports
neighborhood schools. Parents transfer their students into Larrabee because they want them to go
here. He questioned the size of the bond.
Diana Gruman and Catherine Mitchell support Larrabee teachers for their professionalism
throughout this process. They stated that this is a bigger picture than just Larrabee and that other
student’s education should not be compromised just for Larrabee. Family engagement,
community support, robust enrichment, and stewardship are important values.
Courtney Sawyer is a Larrabee parent, neighbor and supporter. She asked the board to not
choose efficiency and economy, but to focus on the human factor.
Saralee Sky attended a neighborhood school as a child, which has since been torn down due to
declining population. Without Larrabee, the neighborhood will be different. The neighborhood
population is growing, and there are plenty of children who enjoy walking to school.

School Board Minutes of Public Hearing
May 8, 2013
Page 3 of 5

David Marshak lives across the street and feels Larrabee is ideally sized for young children and
for teachers to know the children and their parents. He feels the district already provides
opportunities for teachers to meet with other teachers who teach the same grade. He
acknowledged that the building is not perfect, but it is a good school. Children from low-income
families and special needs are overly represented at Larrabee and yet the scores are almost at the
same level as other schools.
Carter Maden said that teachers have an opportunity every Wednesday for collaboration. There is
a cost and benefit to collaboration. Teachers at Larrabee are more senior teachers and they do not
request to transfer to other schools, meaning they want to work at Larrabee.
Carrie Blackwood emphasized the feeling that at the school these are our kids, not your kids. We
know each individual teacher. Larrabee is our school and we need it to hold us together.
Paloma, Ruby, Audrey, three Larrabee students, said it is a wonderful school and to please let us
keep going here.
Todd Edison said it is easy to look at Larrabee from the outside and rate it but you have to take
into account something more important—the community, the teaching and learning, the
environment it offers teachers and parents. Education is about the total growth of a student’s
mind and spirit. It is best offered in an inclusive and safe environment.
James Spaich is a member of the Happy Valley neighborhood and Larrabee represents why this
neighborhood is special. There is a sense of family, community and recognizing your neighbors.
Bobbi Vollendorff said the effect of closing the school would have a major impact on the quality
of the neighborhood and the value of property in the neighborhood. She cited statistics that the
proximity to schools increases property values.
Nick Zaferatos is Lowell parent and said neighborhoods are built around schools. If Larrabee is
closed, it would make people more automobile dependent. The district rebuilt Bellingham High
School and Whatcom Middle School, and should not close neighborhood schools.
Cynthia Zaferatos stated these schools are not replaceable. She encouraged the board to listen to
their heart and do the best for these children. She invited the board to come by the school in the
morning or after school and observe the difference from other schools where the students are
dropped off by car or bus.
Analiese Burns encouraged keeping the school open to allow for shifts in population and the
needs of the future. She asked the board to treat this community with respect, work with the
neighborhood and to create a shared strategy if the school is closed.
Jennifer Pittis said she is trying to visual the city in 50 years. She visualized small neighborhood
schools that would not rely on bus transportation to get children to school. She visualized small,
intimate schools.

School Board Minutes of Public Hearing
May 8, 2013
Page 4 of 5

Julie Hatch has a child with special needs and said Larrabee is the one stable thing that she has.
People at Larrabee know her and understand her needs. She needs to feel safe at school and that
school is Larrabee.
Hue Beattie has lived in the Larrabee neighborhood for 40 years and said houses older than
Sehome and Happy Valley are still being used. Larrabee is older and is still a good school. He
encouraged putting in an elevator and leaving Larrabee alone for 10 years.
Michael Lilliquist serves on the Bellingham City Council representing the 6th Ward and he is
advocating what is in the best interest of the 6th Ward. He stated that there is something
important about neighborhood schools and he felt we don’t have too many small schools, we
have too few.
Matthew Clark believes the staff thinks outside the box and thrives at Larrabee. He said don’t
make Larrabee a cookie cutter school. Keep it individual.
Kelly Hatch chose Larrabee instead of Happy Valley because he prefers small schools. At
Larrabee, he knows all the teachers. Small schools provide a sense of accountability.
Duncan Burns’ home was built in 1908. This neighborhood has had a school in it for over 130
years. The neighborhood grew up around the school. He said the district does not have legal
responsibility to the neighborhood, but a moral responsibility.
Scott Wicklund has reviewed the analysis. He asked the board to not take the task force
recommendation as the only basis to making this decision and to consider the human factor.
Mark McDonald is a graduate of Larrabee. Next year he will have a kindergarten student and a
5th grader at Larrabee. The kids can walk to school. If it is not possible to save Larrabee, wait to
move the students until there is a facility for them.

CLOSING ITEMS
Dr. Baker thanked everyone for attending the public hearing. He expressed his appreciation for
the involvement of families in our community and said the written feedback forms will also be
shared with the board. The board will consider data input gathered from throughout this school
year and consider a decision at the regular board meeting at 7 p.m. on May 9, 2013 at the District
Office.
President Ken Gass asked the board members to introduced themselves and make any comments.
Scott Stockburger said his children attended Larrabee and he encouraged individuals to also
make comments at tomorrow’s board meeting and on the Listening Post.
Camille Hackler expressed appreciation for everyone coming and sharing their opinions, tonight
and through the Listening Post.

School Board Minutes of Public Hearing
May 8, 2013
Page 5 of 5

Steve Smith thanked the individuals for speaking tonight and sharing their opinions. He
acknowledged this is a hard decision and he appreciated the feedback.
Kelly Bashaw acknowledged that this is a tough decision for the board. She said the board
understands how passionate everyone is and she appreciated all the post cards and Listening Post
submissions. She said the board reads them all.
Dr. Gass told the attendees that the board will read all the written comments and submissions to
the Listening Post.

ADJOURNMENT
The public hearing closed at 7:30 p.m.

