BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 9, 2013
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session May 9, 2013 in the Board
Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.

SCHOOL BOARD ORIENTATION
From 6 to 7 p.m., the Board of Directors of Bellingham Public Schools hosted an informational
workshop for individuals who are considering running for the School Board.

OPENING ITEMS
At 7 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, President
Ken Gass, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
Audience
Evan Ritchie addressed the board to encourage a greater commitment to music in schools,
including for the Bellingham High School Showstoppers.
Jen Karuza Schile spoke in support of Larrabee Elementary School, where her children attend.
She does not think there is a problem with having three schools within one mile of each other
and wants her children to remain there. She asked the board to fix Larrabee’s problems and allow
the school to remain open.
Wendy Scherrer asked the board to keep Larrabee Elementary School open according to the
Bellingham Comprehensive Plan. She asked for a delay in making the decision.
Carole Martinson has a student at Larrabee that previously attended Happy Valley. She
expressed concerns about parking at Happy Valley and walk routes.

School Board Minutes
May 9, 2013
Page 2 of 9
Hue Beatie felt by closing Larrabee, the district is being wasteful. He recommended putting in an
elevator at the school and revisiting this issue in 10 years and suggested making Larrabee a K-4
elementary school.
Todd Guiton asked the board for additional support for music and arts in the district. He would
like to see funds for music education twice a week for elementary grades, choir at all middle
schools as part of the curriculum, and more encouragement for a high school music curriculum.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw moved and Steve Smith seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of April 18, 2013 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, investment, April 12, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 17, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 24, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 30, 2013
WCIP, investment, May 2, 2013

$348,000.00
$604,000.00
$2,802,000.00
$1,585,000.00
$2,443,000.00

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, investment, April 12, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, April 17, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 24, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 30, 2013
WCIP, investment, May 2, 2013

$132,000.00
($195,800.00)
$535,906.44
$474,094.00
$495,700.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, April 12, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 17, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 24, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 30, 2013
WCIP, investment, May 2, 2013

$241,000.00
$374,000.00
$995,700.00
$938,000.00
$887,000.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, April 5, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, April 12, 2013
WCIP, investment, April 30, 2013

($37,130.00)
($47,200.00)
($47,970.00)

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, April 2013
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.

School Board Minutes
May 9, 2013
Page 3 of 9
Approval of Contracts and Resolutions
Action on contracts and resolutions as submitted:
a) Resolution 9-13, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the General
Fund.
b) Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services Agreement between Northwest Career and
Technical Academy and Bellingham School District for 2013–2014.
Approval of Surplus Items, Textbooks and Kits
Action on surplus items, textbooks and kits as submitted.
Out-of-State Travel
Action on out-of-state travel as submitted.
a) Staff to attend the International Baccalaureate (IB) Conference of the Americas in New
Orleans, Louisiana, July 18–21, 2013. Funding for this travel will be from a combination
of administrative professional development and educational options funds.
b) Squalicum High School, Shuksan Middle School, and Kulshan Middle School
certificated staff to attend the AVID Summer Institute in San Diego, California, July 31–
August 2, 2013. Funding for the travel will be paid from Educational Options funds.
c) Alderwood Elementary School staff to attend the Conversational Solfege Workshop in
Dallas, Texas, June 10–12, 2013. Funding for the travel will be from a combination of
individual staff development funds and personal funds.
d) Northern Heights Elementary School staff to visit three International Baccalaureate (IB)
schools with strong Response to Intervention Programs in Denver, Colorado, May 15–17,
2013. Funding for this travel will be from individual staff development funds and
building budget.
e) Sehome High School staff to attend the Advanced Placement World History Exams in
Salt Lake City, Utah, June 9–17, 2013. All expenses will be paid through the AP
Educational Testing Service.
f) Superintendent to travel to Boston, Massachusetts, May 15–17, 2013 to attend the
Ed.L.D. Residency Launch workshop. All expenses will be paid by Harvard Graduate
School of Education.
Student Trips
Action on student trips as submitted.
a) Bellingham High School students to attend the Washington State Spring Youth Forum in
Grand Mound, Washington, May 15–17, 2013. Expenses for the travel will be paid with
scholarship funds from the Whatcom Suicide Prevention Task Force.
b) Shuksan Middle School students to attend the Washington State Spring Youth Forum in
Grand Mound, Washington, May 15–17, 2013. Expenses for the travel will be paid with
scholarship funds from the Whatcom Suicide Prevention Task Force.
c) Sehome Football Team to attend Football Camp at Oregon State University in Corvallis,
Oregon, June 21–24, 2013. Expenses for travel will be paid from personal funds, PTA
and fundraising.
d) Squalicum High School students to travel on the Zodiac, May 13–15, 2013. Expenses
will be paid with a combination of fundraising, personal funds and Zodiac grant funds.

School Board Minutes
May 9, 2013
Page 4 of 9

Personal Services Contracts
Action on personal services contracts as submitted.
a) Dawn Christiana to provide training, preparation and facilitation in Guided Language
Acquisition Design (GLAD) affiliated with the migrant summer school program from
June 21–28, 2013.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.

ACTION ITEMS
Resolution 10-13, Pertaining to the Closure of Larrabee Elementary School for K-5
Instructional Purposes
Superintendent Greg Baker read the proposed Resolution 10-13, Pertaining to the Closure of
Larrabee Elementary School for K–5 Instructional Purposes, which is being submitted for the
board’s consideration. Dr. Baker reviewed the recommendation of the Facilities Planning Task
Force, which included retiring Larrabee Elementary School as a K-5 school. He acknowledged
that the process to reach this decision was thorough and inclusive. He recognized it is a complex
and difficult issue, but felt strongly that this decision is the best for all district children.
Steve Smith moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve Resolution 10-13,
Pertaining to the Closure of Larrabee Elementary School for K-5 Instructional Purposes.
President Ken Gass asked for discussion.
Director Steve Smith asked several questions to clarify information that was shared during the
public hearing. One of the issues brought up during the public hearing by speakers was about
academic achievement at Larrabee. He asked for additional information, particularly pertaining
to students who qualify for free and reduced meals. Dr. Baker said student achievement was not
a factor in making the recommendation to close Larrabee as a K-5 school. Research and
Assessment Director Brian Rick addressed the questions about Larrabee’s academic achievement
by sharing information that is available online from the state’s achievement index. The data does
not support that smaller schools have better achievement scores but rather a combination of
factors help determine student success. Steve Clarke, Executive Director of Teaching and
Learning noted that several years ago, Gates invested time and money into researching the
impact of small schools and concluded that size was not the central determinant factor in student
achievement and/or personalization in schools.
It was also stated during the public hearing that students who qualify for free or reduced meals
do better in smaller schools. Mr. Clarke compared statistics between Larrabee (46%
free/reduced), Northern Heights (37% free/reduced), and Sunnyland (55% free/reduced). By
comparison, Larrabee’s overall achievement index is 3.27, Northern Heights’ is 4.75, and
Sunnyland’s is 6.0. In conclusion, data does not support the statement that students from lowincome families do better academically based on the size of a school.

School Board Minutes
May 9, 2013
Page 5 of 9
Dr. Smith also asked if Larrabee has more community engagement than other schools — another
point that was brought up the previous evening. Dr. Baker acknowledged there is not a common
way to track community engagement but each of our 14 elementary schools feel they have great
family and community involvement. All schools work to have enrichment activities for their
students, based on student interest. Executive Director Rob McElroy, who has been a principal
and teacher at several different elementary schools indicated he has always developed a personal
relationship with families at each school. Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable also indicated
during his principalship at Larrabee and Carl Cozier, staff worked closely with families to create
a caring and safe environment.
Dr. Smith also asked about comments that a large number of district students request transfers to
Larrabee. Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations Ron Cowan reviewed data from
the last several years and found it did not support this statement.
It was also brought up at the public hearing that small schools do better at developing the whole
child. Staff responded that we don’t have methods to measure this. However, many of our
schools have programs to support character education, including International Baccalaureate,
AVID, Collective Commitments, and Leader in Me, to name some examples. Cultural and
environmental factors contribute to successful students.
Dr. Smith asked for an explanation of functional adequacy. Mr. Cowan explained that form
follows function — when a school is designed, educational specifications are done first to define
the function for how the space will be used. Then the space is designed to fit the function. Since
the methods of teaching have changed since Larrabee was built in 1920, it no longer supports
staff in implementing the educational program. How well the building supports the educational
program defines the functional adequacy of the building. An educational consultant and the
principal work together to assess the functional adequacy. Comparisons with the rebuilding of
Birchwood Elementary School were made and Mr. Cowan explained that Birchwood, as a single
story building on 4.6 acres, is very different than Larrabee, a multi-story building on 1.3 acres.
Birchwood has adequate space for outside play areas and for multiple grade level classrooms.
There is simply not room to build a larger school on the Larrabee site.
Dr. Scott Stockburger asked if 300 to 375 students is our new standard for elementary schools?
Superintendent Baker explained that to develop the programs that are needed at each elementary
school, with two to three classes per grade level, room for counseling and special programs, we
strive for 350–450 students at our elementary schools to provide the desired program. Our
current average elementary school size is 345, the Washington State average is 441 and the
national average is 478. As a follow-up question, Dr. Stockburger asked if the district planned to
close other small schools in the future? Dr. Baker said there are no plans to close other schools.
In response to an inquiry by Dr. Stockburger, Dr. Baker indicated the State of Washington
recommends elementary schools be placed on a minimum of five acres plus an acre for each for
each 100 students. This is a recommendation, not a mandate. Our community places a high
priority on outside play areas.

School Board Minutes
May 9, 2013
Page 6 of 9
President Ken Gass asked how school facilities projects and staffing are funded? Ron Cowan
indicated that the state sometimes provides a limited amount of facility funding but most comes
from the local community. Staffing for schools is driven by number of children enrolled.
Dr. Smith indicated this community prefers having local, neighborhood schools. Dr. Baker
acknowledged that our community values neighborhood schools that students can walk to.
However, we can’t guarantee that every student can walk to school. If we wanted to ensure all
elementary students could walk to school, we would need to build 17 more elementary schools.
If we wanted to ensure every elementary school had approximately 180 students, we would need
to build 12 more elementary schools. While this might be desired by some, we do not have the
financial resources or the need to do this.
With regard to the resolution before the board, Dr. Smith clarified that the vote is only regarding
Larrabee with no precedent to close other schools. Dr. Baker confirmed that Larrabee is being
considered because it is functionally inadequate and is within a mile of two other under-enrolled
elementary schools.
Dr. Smith asked if the board votes in favor of the resolution and the bond fails to improve Lowell
and Happy Valley, what impact would that have? Dr. Baker indicated this decision is not
dependent on a bond. Lowell and Happy Valley are currently able to accommodate Larrabee’s
students. In an initial analysis, this may require moving some special programs to other schools
and housing some intermediate students in existing portables at Happy Valley, similar to the
current situation at Larrabee where fifth graders are in a portable classroom.
Dr. Smith also asked why the resolution was being presented for the board’s consideration now
for an action that would be taken in one to three years. Why not wait until a clear plan for the
building and students is in place? The community has expressed a desire to have an answer, and
the ambiguity is causing stress with staff and families. By presenting the resolution now, staff
can then focus on exploring other alternate uses for the building and plan for a successful
transition for students. He pointed out that the resolution does encourage the district to look at
other educational uses for the building.
Dr. Stockburger indicated he strongly disagrees with closing Larrabee Elementary School and
wanted confirmation that it is in the best interest of the students to do so. Dr. Baker confirmed
that he believes it is the best for the students.
Dr. Stockburger inquired if the resolution had been reviewed by legal counsel and Mr. Cowan
confirmed.
Dr. Ken Gass asked about safe walk routes to Happy Valley and Lowell and supports
establishing better walking routes. Mr. Cowan indicated that all students who currently live
within the Larrabee walk area will be able to walk to either Happy Valley or Lowell. To Lowell,
the route is almost all sidewalks; however, walking to Happy Valley using sidewalks is not as
easy but still possible. Mr. Cowan will continue to work with the city to explore better walk
routes. Students who currently ride the bus to Larrabee would continue to be bused to either

School Board Minutes
May 9, 2013
Page 7 of 9
Lowell or Happy Valley. Since the schools are so close together, transportation costs are not
expected to dramatically increase.
Dr. Scott Stockburger moved to delay the vote on the Resolution 10-13 for six months.
Discussion followed on what would be accomplished by delaying a vote. Dr. Stockburger said
that time could be used to work more with the Larrabee community and perhaps, determine an
alternate use for the building. A roll call vote was called for:
Steve Smith:
no
Scott Stockburger: yes
Kelly Bashaw:
no
Camille Hackler: no
Ken Gass:
no
Kelly Bashaw moved to approve Resolution 10-13, Pertaining to the Closure of Larrabee
Elementary School for K-5 Instructional Purposes. Steve Smith seconded the motion. A roll call
vote was called for:
Steve Smith:
yes
Scott Stockburger: no
Kelly Bashaw:
yes
Camille Hackler: yes
Ken Gass:
yes
The motion carried by a vote of four to one.
Each board member requested an opportunity to make a statement:
Director Steve Smith said his heart said to keep Larrabee open but the data said otherwise. He
acknowledged it was not an easy vote.
Director Kelly Bashaw reviewed all the research, heard the best practices and felt this was the
best decision but acknowledged it hard because it affects people who are passionate about their
neighborhood.
Director Camille Hackler said she struggled with this decision but knowing the facts made up her
mind. She also said she would prefer to vote on everything at once, including repurposing plans,
and strongly encouraged the district to not leave the building empty and to find another use for
the building.
President Ken Gass agreed with the importance of keeping the building open and functional. He
struggled with the decision but felt the district is not able to provide a quality education. He also
understands that families see it as a safe and caring school, but other parents see their schools the
same way. He feels all students should expect a quality education at all our schools.
Director Scott Stockburger said everyone who spoke at the hearing on May 8 was right; no one
said anything that was wrong. His children attended Lowell, Happy Valley and Larrabee.

School Board Minutes
May 9, 2013
Page 8 of 9
Larrabee’s building is obsolete but it serves as the center of the neighborhood, as a community
center and is the heart of the Larrabee neighborhood. He fears that a vote to close the school is a
vote to close the neighborhood and he acknowledged there is much hard work still ahead.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Governance Process Policy GP-12, Cost of Governance
At the March 14 and the April 18, 2013 School Board meetings, the Board recommended
changes to GP-12, Cost of Governance. Based on these recommendations, a revised GP-12 was
submitted for the board’s review. Kelly Bashaw moved and Camille Hackler seconded the
motion to approve GP-12, Cost of Governance, as revised. The motion carried unanimously.

NEW BUSINESS
Dr. Baker is meeting with the Parkview Elementary School PTA on May 14 at 6 p.m. The task
force recommended some facility changes and Dr. Baker will meet with the staff in the afternoon
and with the PTA in the evening. Directors Bashaw and Hackler will also attend.

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Camille Hackler attended the City of Bellingham meeting on April 23 to hear options about
developing a bicycle master plan. She also attended a Citizens Advisory Meeting, a talent show
at Alderwood Elementary School, the Hungry Minds breakfast and a Silver Beach PTO meeting.
She participated in presenting Alderwood Elementary School Principal Stephanie Korn the
award for Leader of the Year. Ms. Hackler attended the public hearing last night and a luncheon
meeting with Dr. Baker.
Steve Smith attended the Hungry Minds breakfast and participated in a data analysis seminar last
week sponsored by Washington State School Directors Association. He also attended the public
hearing at Larrabee Elementary School.
Scott Stockburger thanked Dr. Baker and staff for answering the questions regarding Larrabee
Elementary School in such detail and for being open, honest and transparent during this process.
He appreciated Dr. Baker’s willingness to answer questions without trying to hide information.
Kelly Bashaw participated in training sponsored by Adverse Childhood Experiences Study
(ACES) that focused on how to support students better. Colleges and school districts are working
on college readiness classes to help students transition to college more successfully.
Ken Gass noted the board held a linkage with homeschool families. He appreciated their
comments and acknowledged they appreciated the fact that the district is open to hearing from
them. He acknowledged that even if we were the best school district, there would still be families
who prefer to homeschool for a variety of reasons. He also attended the Hungry Minds breakfast.

School Board Minutes
May 9, 2013
Page 9 of 9
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Baker indicated the work on the budget for 2013–14 continues. Promise Awards were
presented May 9 for Certificated, Classified, Team, Volunteer and Leader of the Year.
He thanked Scott Stockburger’s acknowledgment to staff for their work. Dr. Baker expressed his
appreciation to staff.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Camille Hackler assessed the meeting. Her overall assessment was good.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 9:25 p.m.

