Board Summary: Community Linkage Meeting
Connecting with Families of English Language Learners
October 24, 2013
The Bellingham School Board and Superintendent Greg Baker welcomed English Language Learner
(ELL) families, students, a recent graduate, and district staff to a linkage meeting on October 24, 2013.
The purpose of the meeting was for the School Board to engage in a discussion about how The
Bellingham Promise connects with the English Language Learners program and the services provided for
students and families. Attendees were divided into small groups with at least one Board member and one
Executive Team member with each group. The Board asked parents and staff members to explore the
following questions:





What in The Bellingham Promise rings true?
What in The Bellingham Promise could be improved?
How does The Bellingham Promise connect to English Language Learners?
How would you describe your experience with Bellingham Public Schools? How could we better
serve you?

Many in the group shared their support for The Bellingham Promise and some asked for more detail
regarding its purpose and its components. Parents and guardians suggested ways that the district could
better serve ELL students and families, including more interpretation and translation services; a desire for
equitable pre-school opportunities for all; and additional resources to help parents assist their children
with homework. Attendees expressed appreciation for programs that enhance family engagement with the
schools, and they asked that resources continue to be directed to such programs. They also emphasized
the need for more flexible after-school transportation services for children who participate in sports or
other extracurricular activities.
Meeting minutes are attached.

School Board Community Linkage with
Families of English Language Learners
Shuksan Middle School Library
October 24, 2013
Linkage Attendees:
 Representative parents/guardians of English Language Learners (ELL), students, and a
recent graduate
 Board President Ken Gass and Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith,
and Scott Stockburger
 Superintendent of Schools Greg Baker
 District Administrators/Staff: Mike Copland, Assistant Superintendent, Department of
Teaching and Learning; Nora Klewiada, Executive Director, Human Resources; Bob
Kuehl, Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources; Justin May, Doctoral Resident;
Tanya Rowe, Executive Director, Communications and Community Relations; Amy
Carder, Director, Department of Teaching and Learning; Isabel Meaker, Special Assistant
to the Superintendent for Family Engagement; Tanya Castellon, Family Liaison; and
Ruth Rasmussen, Superintendent’s Secretary
Call to Order:
President Ken Gass called the meeting to order at 6:10 p.m. and welcomed attendees.
Welcome and Introductions:
Director Camille Hackler thanked those in attendance and explained the purpose of community
linkage sessions: to provide the School Board with the opportunity to strengthen connections
with families and community members. She explained that the board’s role at linkage sessions is
to listen and learn. Ms. Hackler provided an overview of The Bellingham Promise, the district’s
strategic plan.
Dr. Gass introduced Dr. Greg Baker, Superintendent of Schools, and Tanya Rowe, Executive
Director of Communications and Community Relations. Following opening comments, the
invited guests, interpreters (Spanish, Russian, Vietnamese, and Punjabi), Directors, and district
staff introduced themselves.
Board and Attendees Discussion:
Facilitator Tanya Rowe invited board members, district staff, and families to break into small
groups to address guiding questions related to The Bellingham Promise. Following the
discussions, staff highlighted key points from each group. A summary of comments follows:


What in The Bellingham Promise rings true?
o Staff members are very engaged and encourage our students.
o Kids are safe.
o There is vigilance about ensuring kids go down the right path.

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

Teachers are extremely supportive.
There is an opportunity for students to interact with kids from other cultures.
I like how it talks about the whole child. We all want to be loved.
Diversity is valued. There is no discrimination; no sense that one culture is better
than another.
Respectful human beings -- that is important.
Respectful and compassionate; honest and ethical citizens; well-rounded
community members engaged with the broader world; multi-lingual readers and
speakers.
Diversity, compassion, and service build community.
The Bellingham Promise makes sense to me. My kids are really happy with the
schools.



What in The Bellingham Promise could be improved?
o I see there is a commitment to a strong culture and creating character, but I really
don’t understand The Promise.
o Why don’t we have pre-school in all the schools? Only people with really low
incomes qualify for pre-school, so those of us who work, we are “punished.” If
you work, it’s bad [said in jest].
o I would like teachers to address more about respect: respect for self and
community, to increase self-confidence.



How does The Bellingham Promise connect to English Language Learners?
o I am able to communicate with the teachers on ELL nights and during
conferences when the interpreter is there.
o There are always interpreters. Only once I was without an interpreter, because she
was not available.
o When the staff are more open to us, it makes us more willing to open up to them,
and it gives us more security.



How would you describe your experience with Bellingham Public Schools? How could
we better serve you?
o I came from California, and I noticed my children are learning more here. They
[staff] pay more attention to my children here. Their studies have advanced. My
son liked school okay there, but here he can’t wait to go to school. I’ve noticed
the difference.
o My son is making huge strides in his growth, making decisions about his future.
He is more centered, more mature. He is becoming a young adult.
o My daughter is ready and eager to go to school every day.
o These are very effective schools. They love Alderwood.
o To know we have the school’s support is very much appreciated.
o The principal greets our kids…and kids are safe.
o I trust the school to leave our children there.
o At Cordata the staff and everyone is nice to my children.
o I learned a lot, and my kids learned a lot in the Strengthening Families program. I
would like to see more of those types of programs.

o Thank you for the school supplies.
o I want to make sure there are people to help [students] in the schools. Keep the
services for interpreters, because it’s frustrating not to be able to talk to the
teachers.
o We don’t have the tools to help them do their homework. We want to; we just
don’t know how.
o Textbooks are hard to understand.
o I would like my son to be able to participate in after-school activities; but he has
to ride the bus. There is no other way for him to get home. I think it is important
to participate in sports, but my son is unable to do that because of transportation
issues.
o [Parent from the Russian community]: I would like my children to have a greater
exposure to the Punjabi and Hindi community. They have been exposed to other
cultures, but not these, and I would like to see them get better exposure and
representation.
o [Parent from the Punjabi community]: There are different dialects, and the
Punjabi the district uses for written documents is different than my dialect, so it is
difficult to understand.
o The cultural difference between school and home is a challenge. Food and clothes
are an example.
o Usually all I get is a message on the phone from the principal, or announcements
about school. Other than that, I don’t get a lot of communication.
o Parents’ English is limited and they need extra help. Does the school have extra
help? I could use help with a translator or interpreter.
o Is there a possibility of a volunteer spending time in our home to help translate,
and to help with homework? Our students bring homework home, but since I
don’t know English, I don’t know what to do.
o It would help to have a report every week asking what the parent needs or asking
if the students needs special help.
o [Vietnamese parent]: Our school sends something home every week, but it is in
English. If it came home in Vietnamese, it would help. Then we could read it and
understand it. A letter needs to be translated; if not, it is useless.
o [Vietnamese interpreter]: There was a good program at Whatcom Community
College last weekend, but no Vietnamese families were there. No families knew
about it. If you send a letter home that is translated, then the parent and students
will know about these events.
o How come not all schools have tutoring after school?
o I heard that there could be high school students who could come to elementary
schools to help. Ferndale School District has this program.
o There is an information breakdown between families and schools.
o For my child, having time and structure to do homework in the school
environment is really helpful. The home environment is challenging for him to
focus.
o We are learning a new language and adjusting to a new society. We need more
parenting resources. We don’t always know about future planning, like college.

o I’ve noticed many of our schools don’t have theater or drama programs. Our kids
go to private activities for singing and acting, but I wonder what other families do
if they can’t afford this.
o It is great to have a planner. It’s a way to show parents what the work is and what
students are supposed to do in each subject. It helps to have a journal for each
subject, not just separate papers.
o Clear communication on the district’s bullying policy would be helpful.
In his closing statements, Dr. Baker thanked families for taking the time to participate in
tonight’s meeting. He said the district is committed to family engagement and to making sure
every student and family feel they are a part of this district. He expressed appreciation to all
attendees for their input and for helping the district to get better at serving our children.
The meeting adjourned at 7:04 p.m.

