BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 14, 2013
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session March 14, 2013 in the Board
Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
At 6 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, President
Ken Gass, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
Audience
Jim Gaines, Sehome High School teacher, addressed the board about the difficulty of teaching
writing intensive classes due to class sizes. He emphasized that the large class sizes impact all
teachers but especially English teachers and those who teach Advanced Placement (AP) classes.
Amy McKinley, a parent of a Life Skills student, shared with the board her concern with the Life
Skills class at Cordata Elementary School. Even with aides and a nurse in the class, Ms.
McKinley feels that these are our most challenging students, creating a chaotic classroom
situation. She recommended each student have a one-on-one aide.
Shirley Prichard, Happy Valley Elementary School teacher, indicated that this is her toughest
year of teaching. She acknowledged that Happy Valley is a great school in a great community
but she feels the lack of time for teachers and families to connect is making it very difficult. If
teachers have a dedicated time to meet with each child’s family it would do much to support
family engagement.
School Board Directors’ Reports
Kelly Bashaw enjoyed the Board’s visit to Kulshan Middle School. Ms. Bashaw spent time on
March 8 with 75 Bellingham High School seniors who visited Whatcom Community College.
On March 10 and 11, Director Bashaw joined other Board members at the Washington State
School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) Legislative Conference in Olympia. On March 13, she
attended a dinner meeting and heard Linda Gojak, president of the National Council of Teachers

School Board Minutes
March 14, 2013
Page 2 of 6
of Mathematics. She also attended a meeting at Whatcom Middle School for a discussion about
common core.
Camille Hackler participated in the Board’s visit to Kulshan Middle School; met with Dr. Baker
and Director Stockburger for a luncheon meeting; attended the Happy Valley Neighborhood
Association meeting at Larrabee Elementary School; and, with other Board members,
participated in the WSSDA Legislative Conference in Olympia.
Scott Stockburger was impressed by the physical space at Kulshan Middle School and how it
positively impacts teaching. He attended the Larrabee Elementary School parent meeting on
March 6. On March 7, Dr. Stockburger met with Dr. Baker and Ms. Hackler for a luncheon
meeting. He also attended the WSSDA Legislative Conference in Olympia with other board
members and thought it would be beneficial to schedule more time with our legislators early in
the legislative session.
Steve Smith also participated in the Board visit to Kulshan Middle School and attended the
parent meeting at Larrabee Elementary School on March 6. Dr. Smith attended the WSSDA
Regional Meeting in Marysville, including the pre-meeting workshop on Teacher/Principal
Evaluation Project (TPEP). Of particular note, he shared how efforts are being made to better
align superintendent’s evaluations with teacher’s evaluations. Dr. Smith also attended the dinner
meeting with Linda Gojak, president of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
Ken Gass enjoyed the site visit to Kulshan Middle School. He also attended the Happy Valley
Neighborhood Association meeting. Based on comments made at that meeting, he shared that
creating safe walk routes is a concern for parents and should be explored further by the district.
Dr. Gass attended the Legislative Conference and participated in a pre-conference focus group.
He also attended the science fair at Lowell Elementary School on March 12.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Baker gave an update on facilities. Meetings have been held with southside staff,
community and families. He shared that it has been helpful to hear their thoughts and concerns.
A “think tank” has been formed to discuss the timing options in the event a decision is made to
retire Larrabee Elementary School.
Dr. Baker also reported on the status of the 2013–2014 budget and has been engaged in
reviewing above baseline requests from principals and staff. He plans to meet with labor leaders
next week to update them on the budget.
A team of six administrators participated in a Leadership Institute at Harvard University earlier
in the week. Dr. Baker shared two articles from the Institute with the Board. He asked Deputy
Superintendent Tom Venable and Executive Director Steve Clarke to share one key thought from
the Institute. Superintendent Baker emphasized the importance of professional development
throughout our organization.
Annual Report on Asset Preservation Program

School Board Minutes
March 14, 2013
Page 3 of 6
The Board received an annual report from Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations
Ron Cowan on the condition of the district’s facilities that were built after December 31, 1993,
and for which the district received state construction funding. The affected facilities in the
Bellingham School District include Fairhaven, Kulshan and Shuksan middle schools; and
Bellingham and Squalicum high schools.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Scott Stockburger moved and Camille Hackler seconded approval of the consent agenda. The
motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of February 28, 2013 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, investment, February 22, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, February 28, 2013
WCIP, investment, March 1, 2013
WCIP, investment, March 8, 2013

$120,000.00
($1,415,000.00)
$88,000.00
$14,000.00

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, investment, February 22, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, February 28, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, March 1, 2013
WCIP, investment, March 8, 2013

$3,700.00
($39,000.00)
($87,200.00)
$40,500.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, February 22, 2013
WCIP, investment, February 28, 2013
WCIP, investment, March 8, 2013

$11,500.00
$5,000.00
$83,000.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, investment, February 22, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, February 28, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, March 8, 2013

$14,750.00
($850.00)
($11,100.00)

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, February 2013
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Contracts and Resolutions
Action on contracts and resolutions as submitted.
a) Resolution 6-13, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the General
Fund

School Board Minutes
March 14, 2013
Page 4 of 6
b) Early Intervention Services Contract between The Opportunity Council and Bellingham
School District for September 1, 2012 through August 31, 2013
c) Agreement for Cooperative Service between Northwest Educational Service District 189
and Bellingham School District for Whatcom Detention Center Education Program
d) Interlocal Cooperative Agreement between Northwest Educational Service District 189
and Bellingham School District for Whatcom County Detention Center Educational
Program
Policy and Procedure
Action on Policy/Procedure 3142, International Student Exchange as submitted.
Student Trips
Action on Student trips as submitted.
a) Parkview Elementary School 5th grade students to attend the North Cascade Institute’s
(NCI) Mountain School, April 15–17, 2013. Expenses will be paid by students,
scholarships provided by NCI, and PTA scholarship funds.
b) Bellingham, Sehome, and Squalicum high school students to attend the International
Bridge Building competition in Chicago, Illinois, April 25–28, 2013. Expenses will be
paid with funds raised from local firms.
c) Bellingham High School band to travel to the Port Townsend Rhododendron Festival
parade, May 18–20, 2013. Expenses for this trip will be from fundraising and band
booster scholarships.
d) Sehome High School Science Olympiad team to travel to the State Science Olympiad
Tournament in Vancouver, Washington, April 12–14, 2013. Expenses will be paid with
ASB funds, science department funds, and student funds.
e) Squalicum High School Environmental Club to attend the Imagine Tomorrow
Conference and Competition in Pullman, Washington, May 17–19, 2013. Expenses will
be covered by ASB funds and Washington State University and the Imagine Tomorrow
Program.
f) Squalicum High School band students to participate in the Portland Rose Festival in
Portland, Oregon, May31–June 2, 2013. Expenses for the trip will be paid from a
combination of family support and fundraising.
g) Squalicum High School choir students to participate in the Portland Rose Festival in
Portland, Oregon, May 31–June2, 2013. Expenses for the trip will be paid from a
combination of family support and fundraising.
h) Squalicum High School Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA) students to attend
the FBLA Conference in Spokane, Washington, April 24–27, 2013. The cost of the
conference will be paid with student funds and club fundraising.
Out-of-State Travel
Action on out-of-state travel as submitted.
a) Bellingham High School staff to attend the Advanced Placement (AP) Conference in Las
Vegas, Nevada, July 17–21, 2013. Expenses will be covered by professional development
funds and building funds.

School Board Minutes
March 14, 2013
Page 5 of 6
b) Special education staff to attend the Annual National Institute on Legal Issues of
Educating Individuals with Disabilities in Long Beach, California, April 28–May 1,
2013. Expenses for travel will be paid with administrative professional development
funds.
c) Invited curriculum staff to attend the Range Finding Committee in Minneapolis,
Minnesota, April 30–May 3, 2013. Expenses for this travel will be paid by OSPI.
d) An elementary school principal to attend the National Chinese Language Conference in
Boston, Massachusetts, April 7–9, 2013. Expenses for the travel will be paid with
administrative professional development funds.
Personal Services Contracts
Action on personal services contracts as submitted.
a) John Lehni to serve as a home and hospital tutor on an as needed basis, February–August,
2013.
b) Jamie Yoos to complete an inventory of medical supplies; organize, order, stock and
sterilize first aid kits; and provide basic first aid support.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.

ACTION ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw moved to approve Resolution 5-13, Urging the Washington State Legislature to
Address K–12 Funding. Following discussion, the motion carried unanimously. The Board
requested the Superintendent forward copies of the resolution to the Washington State School
Directors’ Association and to each legislator representing this district.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Governance Process Policy Review
In keeping with Policy Governance, the Board reviewed the following Governance Process
Policies:
a) GP-5, President’s Role, Scott Stockburger moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion
to approve GP-5 with the removal of item 1 (d.). The motion carried unanimously.
b) GP-6, Board Advisory Committees, Steve Smith moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the
motion to approve GP-6 with no changes. The motion carried unanimously.
c) GP-6.1, Advisory Committee Structure, Steve Smith moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded
the motion to approve GP-6.1 with no changes. The motion carried unanimously.
d) GP-12, Cost of Governance–changes in GP-12 were recommended and will be
resubmitted for the Board’s consideration at a future meeting.
Executive Limitation Policy Review
In keeping with Policy Governance, the Board reviewed the following Executive Limitations
Policies:
a) EL-4, Staff Treatment

School Board Minutes
March 14, 2013
Page 6 of 6
b) EL-5, Staff Compensation
c) EL-6, Staff Evaluations
The Board discussed revising the above Executive Limitation Policies by combining them into
one new policy. The Board requested Executive Director Nora Klewiada review the suggested
revisions and resubmit for the Board’s consideration at a future meeting.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Executive Limitation 8, District Calendar
The Board discussed the monitoring report on EL-8, District Calendar, which was presented at
the February 28 Board meeting. Steve Smith moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion
finding that the Superintendent is in compliance with the requirements of EL-8. The motion
carried unanimously.

NEW BUSINESS
The Board discussed charter schools and whether the district should submit an intent with The
Washington State Board of Education to become an authorizer for charter schools. No action was
taken.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Scott Stockburger assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was good
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:35 p.m.

