Community Linkage Meeting: Connecting with Bellingham City Council and Mayor
January 24, 2013, 6:00–7:30 p.m.
Linkage attendees:
Kelli Linville, Mayor
Jack Weiss, City Council
Gene Knutson, City Council
Cathy Lehman, City Council
Stan Snapp, City Council
Michael Lilliquist, City Council
Seth Fleetwood, City Council
Janice Keller, Communications
Torhil Ramsay, Community Outreach
Specialist
J Lynne Walker, Council Legislative
Assistant
Ken Gass, School Board President
Kelly Bashaw, School Board Director
Steve Smith, School Board Director
Scott Stockburger, School Board Director
Camille Hackler, School Board Director

Greg Baker, Superintendent
Tom Venable, Deputy Superintendent
Steve Clarke, Executive Director of
Teaching and Learning
Ron Cowan, Assistant Superintendent of
Finance and Operations
Tanya Rowe, Executive Director of
Communications and Community
Relations
Nora Klewiada, Executive Director of
Human Resources
Hank Harris, Executive Director of Human
Resources
Rob McElroy, Administrator on Special
Assignment
Nancy Merry, Superintendent’s Secretary
J.Marie Riche, Facilitator

Call to Order
President Ken Gass called the meeting to order and, on behalf of the School Board, welcomed
the City Council, Mayor Kelli Linville and staff.
City Council Chair Seth Fleetwood called the City Council to order.

Introductions and Meeting Purpose
Attendees introduced themselves and explained their connection to the district.
President Ken Gass and Director Kelly Bashaw explained the purpose of linkages and some of
the recent linkages the Board has hosted.

The Bellingham Promise
The group reviewed The Bellingham Promise and discussed points that resonated with them and
what could be improved.
General comments included:
We need to grow citizens who can govern
Liked that the Promise includes the words “respectful” and “compassionate”
Liked that the Promise includes vocational options; we need all students to be productive

School Board Linkage
January 24, 2013
Page 2 of 3
In response to a question, Dr. Baker explained that “One Schoolhouse” meant equitable
distribution of resources to all schools
Liked the collective community – we are all in this together
Appreciated the listed outcomes for students. The same outcomes that make successful
students will make successful adults.

How can the district and city work even more closely together?
Neighborhood schools are fundamental to the success of our community
The city would like to be more involved in reviewing district facility plans. Dr. Baker
indicated representatives from the Facilities Planning Task Force met with city staff to
talk through ideas and receive input
Cathy Lehman is the city council liaison to the school board. It would be helpful for the
city to clarify the role of this position
Good communication is key
The city and district have worked together on safe walking routes in the past
The district resource officer serves as a great connection between the district and police
department. The district resource officer has reviewed security issues with district
administrators
Suggested the city share the most current information on the city’s growth patterns to
assist the district in future locations of schools
Discussed how to encourage more dense, urban growth
Discussed district involvement in the community health plan. Dr. Baker updated the
council on the collaborative work of the district with Western Washington University and
key community organizations. Community health is a key piece of this work
D.A.R.E. program was a past example of working together for the success of students

District Facilities Planning Task Force
Dr. Baker updated the city council on the work of the District Facilities Planning Task Force,
which begin meeting in September. Approximately 40 people have reviewed district facilities
and will make their recommendations for facility needs for the next 10 years to the
superintendent. The process has included online surveys, four community meetings and
thoughtful reflection. Dr. Baker expressed a high level of confidence in the process.

Summary
The council offered the district the use of BVT10, if needed, to continue to communicate
information. City council members invited the school board to make a presentation at a future
council meeting. The school board invited Council Member Cathy Lehman to attend any school
board meetings, but especially an upcoming session to study the facilities recommendations. It
was acknowledged by both groups that they work on parallel paths and the more they can work
together and share, the better.

School Board Linkage
January 24, 2013
Page 3 of 3
Mayor Linville expressed appreciation for the opportunity to meet and especially to have the
opportunity for Ms. Lehman to share in future school board meetings. Mayor Linville indicated
the city will be starting a comprehensive plan study soon and may call on the district to share
information.
Attendees individually expressed appreciation for the opportunity to meet together to share
priorities and acknowledged that neither can move forward without the support and involvement
of our community partners.

Adjournment
School Board President Ken Gass moved to adjourn the meeting at 7:20 p.m.
City Council Chair Seth Fleetwood moved to adjourn the meeting at 7:20 p.m.

