BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 27, 2013
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session June 27, 2013, in the Board Room
of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Hackler, Scott Stockburger, President Ken Gass,
Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Ruth Rasmussen. Director Steve Smith previously notified
Dr. Gass that he would be out of town and unable to attend the meeting.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
The meeting opened at 5:36 p.m. and Dr. Gass called for adjournment to Executive Session to
discuss personnel issues.
At 6:09 p.m., Dr. Gass called the regular meeting to order.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Audience
Hilary Thomas, Wendy Peterson, and Veronica Douglas addressed the Board regarding the district’s
Highly Capable Learners Program. Common concerns included the district’s proposed HCL funding
for 2013-14, which they believe is too low. Also, they said an external audit is essential and HCL
staffing should be increased, especially at the middle school level. Also mentioned were concerns
regarding the “elitist” label sometimes attached to the HCL program. The speakers encouraged the
district to intensify efforts to identify more students who qualify for the HCL program. An article
posted on the National Association for Gifted Children website was referenced as a good resource in
addressing this topic.
Dr. Gass thanked the speakers for their comments.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw made a motion to approve the consent agenda. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of the June 13, 2013, School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 27, 2013
Page 2 of 6

GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, June 14, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, June 21, 2013

($151,000.00)
($264,500.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, June 14, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, Junes 21, 2013

($117,100.00)
($58,530.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, June 14, 2013
WCIP, investment, Junes 21, 2013

$9,000.00
$8,800.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, investment, June 14, 2013
WCIP, withdrawal, June 21, 2013

$18,615.00
($98,689.00)

Ratify Superintendent’s Signature on Deed of Easement for Fire Hydrants at Birchwood
Elementary School.
Out-of-State Travel
Action on Out-of-State Travel as submitted.
a) Sehome High School staff to attend the Beauty and Joy of Computing Workshop in
Berkeley, California, August 5-9, 2013. Expenses will be paid for with Career and
Technical Education funds.
b) Staff members to attend the Scholastic Achievement Partners 2013 Summer Institute in
Palm Springs, California, July 15-19, 2013. Expenses will be paid for with Title I funds.
Student Trips
Action on Student Trips as submitted.
a) Fairhaven Middle School leadership students to attend the CISPUS Leadership Camp in
Randall, Washington, August 5-8, 2013. Expenses will be paid with ASB funds.
b) Kulshan Middle School leadership students to attend the CISPUS Leadership Camp in
Randall, Washington, August 5-8, 2013. Expenses will be paid with ASB funds.
Approval of Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.
Donor

Description

Amount

Larrabee PTA

Mountain School

$5,066

Larrabee PTA

Lutherwood Camp Retreat

$2,343

Decagon Devices

Cordata 4 Grade Field Trip

$1,000

Sehome PTSA

Learning Center

$5,000

Lowell PTA

Franklin Covey, Consultant

$2,100

Fairhaven PTA

Chairs

$3,000

th

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 27, 2013
Page 3 of 6
Whatcom PTA

Mt. Baker Theater

$1,000

Silver Beach Education Assoc.

Mountain School

$7,548

Geneva PTA

Young Authors

$1,125

Geneva PTA

Mountain School

$2,586

Personal Services Contracts
Action on personal services contracts as submitted.
 Nancy Barga
o Administrator - Seniors Only Summer Program (Summer 2013)
o Summer School Principal - Bellingham Virtual Learning High School Program
(Summer 2013)
o Administrator - High School Collection of Evidence (COE) (Summer 2013)
 Maria Griggs
o Summer School 2013 Administrator for Extended School Year Program at Northern
Heights Elementary School
 Janae Hodge
o Summer School Principal - Migrant Summer School K-8 (Summer 2013)
o Summer School Principal - Learning Assistance Program (LAP) Summer School 6-8
(Summer 2013)
Angela
Kiser

o Technical, Lighting, Projection Screen Technician at Shuksan Middle School
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
ACTION ITEMS
Facilities Bond Resolution for November Election
Dr. Baker highlighted the facilities planning process, noting that he received a recommendation from
a 35-member Facilities Planning Task Force with broad representation throughout our community.
Since that time, staff have been researching, refining, and planning for the potential projects to
recommend for a bond in November 2013.
Following Dr. Baker’s remarks, the Board viewed a video highlighting some of the proposed bond
projects.
Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations Ron Cowan reviewed the district’s existing bond
debt, including outstanding principal, debt structure and comparable tax rates. Compared to similar
school districts in the county, region and state, Bellingham’s current total rate is one of the lowest. If
the proposed projects are on a bond in November, the estimated total tax rate for schools would be
$4.61, still keeping our district among the lower tax rates compared to Whatcom, Skagit and
Snohomish School Districts. The estimated bond tax rate for facilities would result in an increase of
approximately 48 cents per $1,000 or $96 per year for the owner of a home with an assessed value of
$200,000. Mr. Cowan noted that borrowing costs are at historically low levels; the retirement and/or
refinancing of existing debt will help to partially offset the costs associated with the new bonds; and
there are compelling reasons – as demonstrated by the video presentations – to undertake the projects
now.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 27, 2013
Page 4 of 6

Following further discussion, Kelly Bashaw moved and Camille Hackler seconded approval of Bond
Resolution 14-13. The motion carried unanimously. Dr. Gass noted that Dr. Smith had previously
expressed his support of the bond resolution.
Dr. Baker thanked staff and community members who participated in the year-long planning process.
He said the process was robust, transparent and inclusive.
POLICY GOVERNANCE MONITORING REPORTS
Monitoring Report for EL-6, Academic Standards and Practices
Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable summarized the Monitoring Report for EL-6. He
acknowledged the work of Research and Assessment Director Brian Rick, who has been heavily
engaged in the reporting process.
Mr. Venable said Director of Teaching and Learning Michelle Kuss-Cybula will lead the work in the
coming year in updating and refining administrative policies and procedures in the 2000 and 3000
series.
Ken Gass acknowledged the work of staff and administrators in developing a wide range of
innovative programs to enhance student learning and achievement, such as Common Core, the
Teacher/Principal Evaluation Project (TPEP), and early dismissal time to support staff professional
development. He also acknowledged concerns of HCL parents and said he agreed the district must
make every effort to recognize and support all students.
Kelly Bashaw said she is impressed with the district’s focus on preschool, and she praised the
collaborative work with the Opportunity Council, in which sections of local Head Start programs
have been incorporated into the district’s elementary schools.
Camille Hackler said she would like to ensure that the district is consistent in meeting HCL needs at
the middle school level.
Dr. Gass requested a motion on compliance to include the Board members’ comments outlined
above.
Camille Hackler moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the Board’s confirmation that the
Superintendent is in compliance with Monitoring Report EL-6, with comments as noted. The motion
carried unanimously.
Camille Hackler said any recommendations for changes in Monitoring Report EL-6 would be made
at the next meeting.
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
El-1 Expectations of Superintendent
At the June 13, 2013, meeting, the Board heard the Monitoring Report for EL-1, Expectations of
Superintendent and confirmed the Superintendent is in compliance [Nos.1, 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d(i)], and
working towards compliance [Nos. 2d(ii) and 2d(iii)].

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 27, 2013
Page 5 of 6

It was the consensus of the Board to accept EL-1 with one change to item d.i, as follows:
i. All administrative policy and procedure changes have been approved by the board as
consent agenda items; have been made in accordance with administrative policy 1310,
Policy Adoption, Manuals and Administrative Procedures.
EL-2, Organizational Continuity
It was the consensus of the Board to accept EL-2 with no changes.
REPORTS
Preliminary 2013-2014 Budget Presentation
Following brief comments regarding the budget process, Greg Baker introduced Ron Cowan, who
highlighted the 2013-2014 Preliminary Budget Report. The state legislature is currently in special
session, but key assumptions include no program or staffing reductions and no significant increase in
current versus projected enrollment. Once the state finalizes the budget, adjustments to the
preliminary budget, if needed, will be made. The final budget will be presented to the School Board
on August 22.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors' Reports
Camille Hackler attended graduation ceremonies at Bellingham and Squalicum high schools, the
district office barbeque, and the retirement tea for Nancy Merry and Olivia Kennedy. She also
attended a recent meeting of the community-organized Citizens Advisory Committee for Levies and
Bonds. Additionally, as the result of a conversation she had with the Alderwood Elementary School
PTSA president, a supply of bricks from Birchwood Elementary School was delivered to Alderwood
for use in the school garden.
Scott Stockburger reported that he has spoken with many parents regarding the HCL program. Also,
he continues to get calls, emails, and letters concerning the closure of Larrabee Elementary School.
During the week he attended graduation ceremonies at Sehome and Options high schools.
Ken Gass attended graduations at Bellingham and Squalicum high schools and the retirement tea at
the district office. On June 18, he and Steve Smith participated in a breakfast meeting with Greg
Baker. Dr. Gass also attended a meeting regarding the superintendent evaluation project at University
Place School District.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Baker reported that hiring and budget refinement is ongoing. He introduced Dr. Michael
Copland, who is replacing Tom Venable as Deputy Superintendent, effective August 1.
Dr. Baker acknowledged audience member Teri McIntyre who, along with co-chair Mark Peterson,
will lead the community-organized Citizens Advisory Committee for Levies and Bonds.
Dr. Baker expressed appreciation to Executive Secretary Nancy Merry and Deputy Superintendent
Tom Venable for their service to the district. Ms. Merry is retiring after 21 years of service, and Mr.
Venable is resigning after 18 years of service to accept a position as Superintendent of the Methow
School District.

DRAFT School Board Minutes
June 27, 2013
Page 6 of 6

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Kelly Bashaw assessed the meeting. Her overall assessment was good.
NEW BUSINESS
Upcoming Board meetings:
 6 p.m., July 16: regular meeting
 5:30 p.m., August 8: Board retreat
 6 p.m., August 22: regular meeting (will include adoption of the budget)
Adjournment
President Ken Gass moved to adjourn the meeting at 7:23 p.m.

