Monitoring Response Document
Board Members: (All – initial compilation 2)
Policy Monitored: EL-1 Expectations of Superintendent

Attachment 1
B/SR 3.1.1

Date Report Submitted: 10-20-16

Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 11/3/16
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance. (3)
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.* (2)
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 No external audit findings for the 12th year is commendable.
 No policies and procedures remain in the 8000 series.
 Improvement continues in many areas
 The board appreciates all the work to get the 1000 series of board policies and procedures up
to date and aligned with our policy governance model.
 1.a: If policy update is perpetual (see note regarding WSSDA updates) when would
compliance be achieved? It is always going to be evolving.
 If it is true that we are at the state forefront regarding policy development under a Policy
Governance model, it is commendable.
 As last year, the volume of policy updates represents a tremendous body of work, and the
progress this year is commendable.
 The board appreciates the effort expended in updating the forms, especially since this was
something that needed updating.
 Completion of 88 policies/procedures/forms
Adopted:
Monitoring Method:
Monitoring Frequency:

Oct. 10, 2009; revised Nov. 14, 2013; Oct. 2, 2014; Sept. 17, 2015; Oct. 8, 2015
Board Assessment
As determined in the Annual Board Agenda GP-7.1

Monitoring Response Document

Attachment 1
B/SR 3.1.1

3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 Consider re-interpreting the standard of “compliance” under this policy to accommodate
perpetual changes recommended by outside sources.
 Regarding compliance, technically some areas will never be complete.
 The board recognizes the ongoing need to review and update policies and procedures and that
revisions or creation of some policies may lead to inconsistencies and the need to alter other
policies. This is ongoing work that will never be fully up-to-date
4. Comments on the report itself.
 A clean opinion merely provides that the financial statements are materially correct and there
is no evidence of impropriety. It does not address prudent financial management or the
strength of a district’s financial position.
 The opening refers to the superintendent’s role with regard to Policy Governance violations.
There is no mention of this in the current report; however, the superintendent is currently
supporting Policy Governance development with the board. This could be considered
proactive support of this policy -- in the next reporting period.
 In the future, the board would like to hear more about the implementation of new or changed
policies.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
 Since the responses to the EL are “Working toward compliance,” and will always be the same,
the board should consider changing what is reported upon. EL-1 is addressing risk
management and whether district policies and procedures are legally compliant. The critical
issue is whether any district policies and procedures are out of date and how long. Maybe a
table should be included with all policies and procedures listed, a three-word descriptor, date
of last review or update, and when the last WSSDA update to the policy was released.
 Would like to discuss possible revision to the EL: When district policies change or are created
in response to concerns that are brought to the board's attention, the board would like to
receive an update about the affected policy.

Adopted:
Monitoring Method:
Monitoring Frequency:

Oct. 10, 2009; revised Nov. 14, 2013; Oct. 2, 2014; Sept. 17, 2015; Oct. 8, 2015
Board Assessment
As determined in the Annual Board Agenda GP-7.1

