Draft Meeting Minutes: Community Linkage Special Meeting
Connecting with Law Enforcement
Bellingham School District Conference Room 205 – 1:30 p.m.
October 26, 2016
Linkage Attendees:
 Law Enforcement Community Representatives: Bellingham Police Department (BPD)
Lt. Danette Beckley; BPD Police Chief Cliff Cook; District Resource Officer (DRO)
Chris Brown; Whatcom County Juvenile Probation Officer Greg Fosty; Whatcom County
Sheriff’s Office Lt. Kevin Hester; BPD Officer Bo Mcginty; BPD Sergeant Claudia
Murphy; Western Washington University (WWU) Police Chief Darin Rasmussen; BPD
Detective Pauline Renick; Whatcom County Superior Court Clerk Dave Reynolds; BPD
Lt. Bill Slodysko; WWU Assistant Police Chief Donnell Tanksley; BPD Lt. Bob
Vanderyacht.
 Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson,
Steven Smith
 Superintendent of Schools Greg Baker
 District Leadership/Staff: Assistant Superintendent Steve Clarke; Executive Director Kurt
Gazow; Executive Director Nora Klewiada; Assistant Superintendent Bob Kuehl;
Assistant Superintendent Simone Sangster; Executive Director Tanya Rowe; Director of
School Safety and Emergency Management Jonah Stinson; Special Assistant to the
Superintendent for Family Engagement Isabel Meaker; Safety and Wellness Secretary
Karri Neuhauser; and Recorder Ruth Rasmussen
1. Opening Items
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions: The meeting was called to order at
1:30 p.m. School Board Director Quenby Peterson welcomed the group and introduced
Dr. Baker. Following Dr. Baker’s welcome and opening comments, the invited guests,
board members and district staff introduced themselves and described their connections
to the school district.
2. Meeting Purpose – Explanation of Community/Board Linkage:
Ms. Peterson thanked attendees for their participation. She explained that the school
board views community linkages as an opportunity to listen and connect with the
community and to strengthen connections with stakeholders. More specifically, the board

is seeking input on the goals set for students through board policies expressed in The
Bellingham Promise, the district’s strategic plan.
3. Large Group Discussion with School Board:
The following were guiding questions for the discussion:
 How do you see The Bellingham Promise connected to your work in law enforcement
with youth in our schools and community?
 What is working well for our students?
 What is missing or needs improvement?
 How can we better work together?
Chief Cook said he is pleased with the positive relationship that exists between the police
department and the district. It is evident, he said, that the district sees the importance and
value of the police department, and he said BPD is willing to help in any way possible to
further the district’s efforts in connection with The Bellingham Promise.
Summary of comments:
 The statements in The Promise that all children should be loved and the whole child is
important are impressive. If one or both of these principles is missing, a child cannot
develop. A lot of times, school district staff are the only people who are loving these kids.
Additionally, you want the whole child present in the classroom. If a child is being
abused at home, he/she will not get to realize their full potential; you will not have the
whole child there.
 The school itself can have a huge impact on kids through early interventions, or by staff
observing and reporting signs of abuse and neglect. All school district staff are mandatory
reporters – so we have a tremendous resource. It is critical that new staff know what
mandatory reporting is all about, and that they understand this is not a violation of
confidentiality but rather could be a life saver.
 We all have the same agenda – the safety and health of our kids. The classroom for many
kids may be the only safe place they have within a 24-hour period.
 Within the community, Brigid Collins Family Support Center is a tremendous resource.
The agency partners with Darkness to Light to provide Stewards of Children training. We
encourage the district to get all staff members enrolled in this training. (In response, Ms.
Bashaw stated she has taken the training and can vouch for its value.)
 {In response to Ms. Peterson’s inquiry regarding the challenges relating to increased use
of technology}: In the last three years, there has been an increase in cyberbullying. Kids
are now able to connect with each other 24/7; and we are seeing an increase in the use of
technology for the purpose of harassment. This could be kids versus kids, or kids versus
teachers. Staff training in this area is more critical than ever, particularly now that 1:1
technology is on the horizon for students in Bellingham.
 The White Hatter (Personal Protection Systems) is recognized as an expert on on-line
safety and has presented in this community in the past. He is, however, preaching to the
choir in most cases. We need to get more parents to attend his next presentation – parents
who are not as aware of this problem or are perhaps not as concerned as they should be.
 We would welcome more collaboration between the district and police department. We
understand teachers have limited time; perhaps prior to the start of the school year a BPD










presentation could be part of the teacher in-service days. Any number of topics could be
addressed; for example, cyberbullying, mandatory reporting requirements, or responding
to active shooters. Law enforcement personnel need more face time with educators so we
are all on the same page.
{In response to Dr. Smith’s inquiry as to what kinds of activities requiring police
response seem most prevalent in the community}
o Vandalism, bike theft, sexual assault, stalking, dating violence, low-level and
high-level drug offenses.
o Property crime, vandalism, mischief, drinking in public.
o The kids are a microcosm of what we see in the county. A lot of times, it is drugs
and drinking and vandalism and theft. Definitely an increase in cyberbullying –
crimes we never had to worry about a few years ago. Our schools need to teach
kids how to navigate this electronic world; our teaching needs to catch up with
that.
o Mental health issues and drug use. Meth, heroin, and other types of deadly drugs.
This is a substantial problem.
o The decriminalization of marijuana allows access to edibles, and that is a concern.
We need to work together and let kids know there are more people watching them. They
need a lot of support and a big safety net.
Collaborate on how to create more opportunities for students to see law enforcement
personnel in a more positive light. Building positive relationships with kids can then
extend way beyond the time that they leave school.
{Steve Clarke} Thank you for giving us your best folks – top notch people who love our
kids like we do. We want our kids to have a good relationship with the police department.
They see you differently when they see you working in the schools. When we had a
resource officer in every high school, it was very beneficial.
{Isabel Meaker} Thank you for the positive comments on the Darkness to Light program,
and thank you for what you put on the line every day. Anything we can do to create
positive interactions between law enforcement personnel and students is huge.
Regarding the benefits of DROs in schools: Organizations that give grants want empirical
data – but we also need to tell them the stories about the every-day relationships that can
develop when police officers are working with students in the schools. We can’t save
everyone, but the stories we can tell about being DROs – not the statistics – need to be
heard.

4. Closing and Wrap-Up
Dr. Baker thanked attendees for their participation and summarized key points of the
discussion.
The meeting adjourned at 2:35 p.m.

