Monitoring Response Document – Final Compilation

ATTACHMENT A

Board Member: all
Policy Monitored: EL-2, Organizational Continuity
Date Monitoring Report & Attachment submitted: 4-21-16
Monitoring response discussion: 5-26-16 board meeting
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s monitoring report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s)
b. is making reasonable progress towards
noted.*
achieving the goals.
c. is making reasonable progress toward
c. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
d. is not in compliance or is not making
progress is expected in some areas.*
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
e. cannot be determined*
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)
2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 Leadership Transition Plan
 Pleased with the hiring of the Director of School Safety and Emergency Management.
 Impressed with the update of 82 policies, procedures and forms on top of an already busy
school year.








Continued development of leadership entry/exit process is an example of the board’s
commendable standard where "there is evidence that a variety of coordinating, coaching,
facilitating and planning efforts were used to obtain high team performance.” It also is
evidence of “creativity" and best practices.
There has clearly been a great deal of work toward revamping and updating administrative
policies to align with a policy governance model and WSSDA recommendations. The
impressive velocity of this work has been sustained from previous years. This
is commendable “progress.”
The addition of a School Safety Director and implementation of upgraded security
technology shows commendable “progress” (follow through of previous planning)
and “creativity.”
2.b.ii requires continuity of leadership- though not mentioned in the report, this was

Monitoring Response Document – Final Compilation






ATTACHMENT A

clearly evidenced when key communications leadership needed to be away and it
appeared that the department’s functions were uninterrupted.
The leadership transition document indicates a strong level of support for incoming
leaders’ continuity.
Implementation of robust entry processes, especially in functional areas new to the district
such as Wellness, Safely, Volunteers.
Continuing to update and revise policies and procedures.
Completing the installation and training of the new emergency response system at each
school.

3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 Consider having the superintendent share privately the results of the site security
assessments with the board during one-on-one meetings.
4. Comments on the report itself.
 Continuing to refine policies/procedures and forms
 As noted in last year’s monitoring response: “The current report is concise and wellstructured, making both compliance and new developments easy to assess.” This
comment would apply to this year’s report as well.
 Short, sweet and to the point.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
 None noted

