Monitoring Response Document
B/SR 3.1.1
Board Member: All
Policy Monitored: EL-7, Budget Planning & Execution

ATTACHMENT B

1-14-16 meeting minutes

Date Report submitted: 12-10-15

Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 1-14-16
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s)
b. is making reasonable progress towards
noted.*
achieving the goals.
c. is making reasonable progress toward
c. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
d. is not in compliance or is not making
progress is expected in some areas.*
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
e. cannot be determined*
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)
2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
o partnerships
o communicating with stakeholders
o clean audit for the past 10 years
o It is worth noting that the hiring of a grant writer resulted in 10 grants with a total of $660,381
in grants awarded
o Leveraging local resources and expertise to support both specific needs and district-wide
initiatives.
o The addition of the “learnings” to the reports is worthwhile. It helps the board to see that the
report is not just an item to complete, but that reflection on improvements is being considered.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
o Question: does 2.c. address the future part of "building organizational capabilities sufficient
to achieve Ends in future years”?
4. Comments on the report itself.
o The additional detail in the report is appreciated; for example, the addition of comparisons
with budgeting by similar and highly effective organizations.
o The processes laid out appear clear and comprehensive.
o A one page executive summary/table of new initiatives, improvements, KPIs, etc. that
compares the current and previous one or two years would be helpful. The report boilerplate
can expand on these items.

o (Additionally see comment below that was previously on the Board Response to Monitoring
report for EL-9 dated Dec. 10, 2015.)
o Consider these tweaks:
 Use bold formatting to indicate new programs, improvements over last year,
awards, etc., to assist year to year evaluation by the board.
 Decide on a limited set of data points that are indicators of progress (as
already presented) and track them year to year, maybe only briefly in prose
form, but include a data table at the end to show change (hopefully
improvement) or trends in support of the Bellingham Promise (redirecting
resources to teaching and learning, safe and efficient teaching and learning
environments, etc.). This brings up an old issue over which the board and
administration will hopefully continue to wrestle: will EL Reports simply
provide assurance that specified limits were not exceeded or will they reflect
the work of “similar and highly effective organizations,” as called out in the
EL, tracking data that supports or hinders The Bellingham Promise?
5. Possible changes to the policy.
o First paragraph: Consider further definition of who the audience is for communicating the
budgetary development progress.
o 2.a.ii. Consider including "new or expanded or eliminated budget initiatives..."
o 2.b.iii. "Timely advise the Board of: Explains all material variances...."

2

