Board Summary: Community Linkage Meeting
Connecting with Behavioral Health Practitioners
District Office Board Room
June 14, 2016

The Bellingham School Board of Directors and Superintendent Greg Baker welcomed
audience members, invited guests and district staff to a linkage meeting with behavioral
health practitioners. The purpose of the meeting was for the directors to engage in a
discussion about how The Bellingham Promise resonates with this group and how the school
district can strengthen its relationship with this segment of the community. The discussion
focused on the following questions:
 What is working well for our students related to behavioral health and wellness?
 What is missing or needs improvement?
 How can we better work together?
 How do you see The Bellingham Promise connected to behavioral health?
During the discussion, attendees shared insights and thoughts on the guiding questions.
Highlights of discussion:
 The district’s practice of having providers come into the schools is effective and working
well.
 Our family engagement program is extremely effective; this needs to continue to be a
focal point and expanded if possible, as parent engagement is critical.
 The district should consider incorporating relationship skills and DVAS (Domestic
Violence Advocacy Service) into its curriculum.
 Focus more on emotional intelligence.
 How can the district encourage staff members to make self-care a priority?
 The district deserves applause for its support of LGBTQ students.
 Several outcomes of The Bellingham Promise resonate, including the development of
students and graduates who are respectful and compassionate; healthy and active;
effective communicators; artists and performers; confident individuals who continue to
challenge themselves; and collaborators and team players.
Meeting minutes are attached.

Draft Meeting Minutes: Community Linkage Meeting
Connecting with Behavioral Health Practitioners
Bellingham School District Board Room – 5:30 p.m.
June 14, 2016
Linkage Attendees:
 Behavioral Health Practitioners: Gregory Merrill, Sea Mar Community Health Centers;
Dr. Susan Kane-Ronning; Joe Fuller, Anne Deacon, and Perry Mowery, Whatcom
County Health Dept.; Michaela Petz, MSW; Krystal Garmon, Whatcom/Skagit Crisis
Prevention and Intervention; Riannon Bardsley, Northwest Youth Services; David
Webster, Opportunity Council; Kristi Slette, ED, Whatcom Family & Community
Network; Emily Wilson, Whatcom Dispute Resolution Center; Kate Foster, Parents
Matter; Randy Polidan, Unity Care Northwest; Meghan Lever and Kelsey Ottum,
Catholic Community Services; James Harle, MD
 Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson,
Steven Smith
 Superintendent of Schools Greg Baker
 District Leadership/Staff: Assistant Superintendent Steve Clarke; Deputy Superintendent
Mike Copland; Executive Director Ron Cowan; Executive Director Kurt Gazow;
Executive Director Nora Klewiada; Assistant Superintendent Bob Kuehl; Executive
Director Isabel Meaker; Director of Teaching and Learning Steve Morse; Executive
Director Tanya Rowe; Recorder Ruth Rasmussen
1. Opening Items
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions:
Camille Diaz Hackler, School Board President, called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
She welcomed the group and introduced Dr. Baker. Following Dr. Baker’s welcome and
opening comments, the invited guests, board members and district staff introduced
themselves and described their connections to the school district.
2. Meeting Purpose – Explanation of Community/Board Linkage:
Meeting facilitator Douglas Benjamin thanked attendees for participating in this meeting.
He explained that linkages provide the school board with opportunities to listen and
strengthen connections with district partners. More specifically, the board seeks input on
the goals set for students through board policies expressed in The Bellingham Promise.
This is a dynamic, living document that serves as the centerpiece for decisions and

actions of all school personnel, and the intent is that it will evolve and change over time.
Linkage meetings are an ideal way for the board to hear from stakeholders on their
thoughts and experiences with The Promise.
2.1 Large-Group Discussion with School Board
Mr. Benjamin invited attendees to take a few minutes to review The Bellingham Promise.
He said the following guiding questions would serve as a framework for this evening’s
discussion:
 What is working well for our students related to behavioral health and wellness?
 What is missing or needs improvement?
 How can we better work together?
 How do you see The Bellingham Promise connected to behavioral health?
Summary of comments:
 What is working well?
o The district’s practice of providing space for providers to come into the
schools to meet with kids is an innovative idea, and it works. This approach
helps break down barriers for families.
o From my standpoint [as a private practitioner], the counselors are doing a
good job of recognizing which kids will benefit from this short-term
intervention at school, and they know when to refer out.
o The district has chosen to take a compassionate and thoughtful stance with
kids who don’t make the best decisions; this approach allows identification of
those kids who are truly at risk.
o In response to an inquiry, Director of Teaching and Learning Steve Morse
said both Sea Mar and Compass Health provide mental health services at 16
of the district’s 22 schools.
o The family engagement team under the leadership of Isabel Meaker is doing
important work in promoting activities such as the Shuksan Middle School
community family nights. Isabel’s ability to connect families to so many
different resources is commendable. The question is: how far can we stretch
that work? Some of the families who would benefit the most are hardest to
access. Family involvement is one of our ongoing challenges.
o I applaud the district for its queer/straight alliance work. Our LGBTQ kids are
creating a community; thank you for supporting them.
o In response to the question of what resonates within The Bellingham Promise,
attendees referenced the following outcomes:
 We develop students and graduates who are respectful and
compassionate humans. We don’t see this modeled much in our
society but it is critical, not only in terms of preventing the horrors we
see in the news, but also in simply raising responsible citizens.
 Healthy, active individuals; effective communicators
 Artists, performers: This is a therapeutic break in the day for some
students. I’m glad to see the district bringing [the arts] back.
 Confident individuals who continuously challenge themselves: Grit
and perseverance are equally or sometimes more important than
intelligence.





Collaborators and team players: The social connection piece is
critical.
What is missing or needs improvement?
o District staff have a very hard job. How do we honor that hard work? How do
we acknowledge that and teach them to care for themselves? What are the
self-care opportunities for educators and staff? [In response, Dr. Baker said
staff members have access to an Employee Assistance Program that is
coordinated through Human Resources. Additionally, the district has
partnered with Whatcom Community Foundation to co-fund a wellness
director position. Her responsibilities are large in scope, but employee
wellness is one area of focus.]
o I’ve seen certain discipline techniques that are not effective; for example,
taking away recess. How do we provide training and support for staff in better
classroom management?
o [I would like to see] increased prevention efforts in the areas of substance
abuse as well as suicide prevention. Peer-to-peer programs should be
expanded.
o Consider more education around dating skills. What characterizes a healthy or
unhealthy relationship? Parents are asking for training on how to talk with
their kids about abuse prevention in relationships.
o A lot of connection to resources outside of school continues to feel like
punishment for kids. The way it is framed can make a huge difference. The
way students are connected to community resources can continue to be
improved.
o In response to a question relating to emotional intelligence being a component
of the curriculum, Mr. Morse said work in this area is being done by teams of
counselors; and all of our elementary schools use Zones of Regulation. A
question to consider, he said, is whether it is better to have a specific
curriculum based on emotional intelligence or to simply practice it every day
in terms of the culture we build in schools.

3. Closing and Wrap-Up
 Dr. Baker thanked attendees for their participation and summarized key points of the
discussion.
The meeting adjourned at 6:36 p.m.
_____________________________
Camille Diaz Hackler
School Board President
Attest:
_____________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved:

