Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT D (6/14/16 minutes)

Board Member : All (final compilation)
Policy Monitored: Ends 2.1, part 2, Student Competence
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6-14-16

Date Report submitted: 2-18-16

The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s monitoring report, including the data set,
referenced above. Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his
representatives, the Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the policy.
a. is in compliance.
b. is making reasonable progress towards
b. is in compliance, except for items(s)
achieving the goals.
noted.*
c. is making reasonable progress toward
c. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
d. is not in compliance or is not making
progress is expected in some areas.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in achieving
reasonable
progress
toward
the goals established. *
compliance.*
e. cannot be determined*
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)
2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 Steady progress in growing dual credit opportunities is clearly evident, as is increasing
participation.
 There is evidence of progress developing CTE programs, with a good rationale as to why this
is important, for example, graduation rates. (CTE enrollment increased 30 percent in one
year.) This is an area that can really help many of our students find and develop a passion and
become career-ready.
 The absolute numbers of students taking classes to prepare for post-secondary education
continues to climb.
 The board appreciates the clear and unbiased assessment of how the district is serving some of
its populations relative to other districts.
 More students taking College in the High School courses is commendable.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 The board’s 2015 response to Ends 2.1 part 2 calls out special education and ELL students.
While there is little mention of these groups in the narrative, they are included in the data.
 As noted in the report, “…we must do a better job helping our students in the four ...”
populations observed. This item was also specifically noted in the prior year’s response.
 Providing more access and opportunities is just a first step; the next step is for the scores
(i.e. SAT) and the credits earned (i.e. AP) to increase. (However, this is not specified in the
policy.)
 We as a district must continue to figure out why BSD is falling behind our comparable
schools.

Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT D (6/14/16 minutes)

Board Member : All (final compilation)
Policy Monitored: Ends 2.1, part 2, Student Competence
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6-14-16

Date Report submitted: 2-18-16






Data shows that our low income, ELL, Hispanic and special education students’ enrollment in
dual credit courses is staying stagnant. As noted in the report, it would be nice to see more of
these students access dual credit opportunities.
Some of our high schools appear to support access to AP for all students, including freshmen,
while others seem to discourage it. Clear communication to students and parents about
specific class expectations and realistic course-load and outcomes would likely be helpful
across all schools.
Are there ways we can better prepare students for AP or College in the High School classes in
middle school or early high school? With the elimination of honors classes, is the increased
load of an AP or CHS class a tougher transition than some students are prepared for? Do some
students choose not to enroll in these classes out of fear?

4. Comments on the report itself.
 Raw numbers (e.g. AP exams taken) are hard to interpret relative to other schools unless
scaled.
 Squalicum High School was used as the comparable in last year’s report drill down. It might
be helpful to rotate the drill down section between the schools, especially when looking at
high schools or middle schools.
 Information on some of our former students is helpful and appreciated.
 The data is good, but are we capturing the right data? Should we be capturing something
different?
 It would be helpful in future reports to see data that shows how students who went through
AVID are doing and where they are.
 What is the impact on students who take AP classes but do not score a 3 or higher? Do they
continue to take them at the same rate as their peers or do they get discouraged and not
continue with AP?
5. Possible changes to the policy.
 The policy calls out participation. Should the policy call out success? What we want is to
provide a rigorous curriculum that prepares students post high school. What is the ideal
measure? Success in first year out of high school? One year of college? Gainfully employed?
 Consider a revision to focus more on the desired outcomes/ends. (Consider a discussion on
this topic with consideration given to comments during the March 30 linkage with the higher
education community.)

