Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT A (6/14/16 minutes)

Board Member – All (final compilation)
Policies Monitored: Ends 1

Date Report submitted: 5-26-16

Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6/14/16

The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s monitoring report, including the data set,
referenced above. Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his
representatives, the Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the policy.
a. is in compliance.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
c. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
d. is not in compliance or is not making
progress is expected in some areas.*
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in achieving
e. cannot be determined*
the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*

*see comments below (No. 3)
2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 The district continues to put the vision and mission forward as the guiding principles for
district decisions. It is refreshing for the vision and mission to be so front and center.
 Central kitchen, start/end times and the family support fund represent commendable
progress.
 Perhaps some of the strongest evidence of achieving Ends 1 is the way the entire
Bellingham Promise has been obviously woven into almost every aspect of the district’s
operation. Staff and families know it and regularly discuss it, and it is referenced
comprehensively in district documents and communications.
 Better food and changing start/end times (attention to sleep) are examples of “creativity”
and “progress" in action.
 Continuing efforts to envision healthier school food options, expanding breakfast after the
bell.
 Announcement of change in high school start times for 2017-18 school year.
 Continuing and expanding community partnerships to address students' basic needs.
 The work done on The Promise website is an example of commendable progress over the
past year.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 The 2015 report called out specific areas for additional improvement that would still be
helpful to hear about: expanding Family Resource Center activities, Volunteer Coordinator
tapping community adult volunteers, etc. The board would like to see evidence that
demonstrates the full spectrum of how our students are "ready for the widest range" of postsecondary options, specifically at each end of the spectrum.

Monitoring Response Document
Board Member – All (final compilation)
Policies Monitored: Ends 1

ATTACHMENT A (6/14/16 minutes)
Date Report submitted: 5-26-16

4. Comments on the report itself.
 In providing evidence, the board would like to see specifics in the report as to what vision
and mission attributes are being satisfied.
 Very thorough report.
 The report shows a great effort to provide a “mix of quantitative and qualitative
information.”
 The board is interested in hearing more examples of how the district has empowered
students to contribute to their community.
 The board would have liked to have seen more examples of achieving the goals set forth
in Ends 1.0 in this report.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
 The vision and mission represent overarching guidance that is not necessarily intended to
be measured. The vision and mission are guidelines in developing the measurable Ends.
o If there is a desire to measure the vision and mission, maybe E-1.1 can be
developed with items specified for annual measurement. The items to measure
should be limited to items not reported upon in any other Ends reports.
 Minor note: consider change of gender reference in last sentence to match the rest of that
portion of the policy. For example, change "exceptional in his or her own way" to
"exceptional in their own way."

