Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT C (6/14/16 minutes)

Board Member: All (final compilation)
Policies Monitored: Ends 3
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6/14

Date Report submitted: 5-26-16

The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s monitoring report, including the data set,
referenced above. Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his
representatives, the Board makes the following conclusions:
1.

Ends Reports:
The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the policy.
b. is making reasonable progress towards achieving
the goals.
c. is making reasonable progress towards achieving the
goals, but a greater degree of progress is expected in
some areas.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in achieving the
goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*

1.

Executive Limitations Reports
The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. is in compliance.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
c. is making reasonable progress toward compliance.*
d. is not in compliance or is not making reasonable
progress toward compliance.*
e. cannot be determined*

*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 Partnership with Panorama is commendable. This kind of measure is interesting and
represents a good attempt at quantifying characteristics that are very qualitative in nature. The
board looks forward to broader use, including even more detail linking specific items to
Promise outcomes.
 The number and scope of The Promise website stories under Critical Thinkers/Problem
Solvers is impressive.
 The US News ranking of high schools is an example of “Regional, State or National
Recognition” and is commendable.
 The board appreciated the comment about "Learning to listen effectively" in "Effective
Communicators," since receipt of information is just as important as delivery.
 Continuing with and expanding Restorative Justice practices is commendable.
 Inclusion of data from the Healthy Youth Survey is commendable.
 The board is impressed with the thoughtfulness of going above and beyond meeting the goals
of healthy students, but also looking at staff wellness. We believe that having staff model
good behavior will make a huge difference for our students.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 The reporting appears to indicate that a large percentage of our students do not have a sense of
belonging. Continued work on creating tight-knit school communities is desired.
 Increased chronic absenteeism is concerning. The board would like to see a concerted effort to
determine ways to encourage students to feel more connected and want to show up for
school.
 The board would like to see increased focus on providing opportunities for students to
become "healthy, active individuals," perhaps by providing more relevant PE options and not
encouraging PE waivers in high school.

Monitoring Response Document
Board Member: All (final compilation)
Policies Monitored: Ends 3
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6/14








ATTACHMENT C (6/14/16 minutes)
Date Report submitted: 5-26-16

Re: "Innovators and Creators:" The board would like to hear more examples of innovative
practices used in schools or implemented by students.
Re: "Confident Individuals who Continuously Challenge Themselves:” Many students who
perform above grade level do not feel challenged academically. The board would like to see
more academically challenging options for these higher level learners.
It is crucial that students feel safe and respected at school. Where this is not the case, we need
to find out why and improve. Increasing learning opportunities about personal safety and
respect for self and others would be helpful to see (i.e. online safety, domestic violence, cross
cultural awareness/tolerance, etc.).
The board would like to see more examples of "Well-Rounded Community Members Engaged
with the Broader World." The US News and World Report article doesn't really reference this.

4. Comments on the report itself.
 The analysis using data from the Healthy Youth Survey and the Panorama Survey is a much
welcome addition. Thank you.
 Very thorough report.
 The report’s initial measure used for “Honest and Ethical Citizens Who Act with Integrity”
may be a bit of a reach in that the questions used are geared toward “not acting in an immoral
way.” Attributes cited in The Promise, on the other hand, call out acting in a positive way
(going beyond neutral,) not just refraining from being “bad.” The stories cited on The Promise
website are probably better examples of what The Promise calls for.
 The five bullet points in the “What Have We Learned” section are appreciated in that they
are “instructive of past, present and future” and “call out challenges.” This is commendable.
 In the future, the monitoring report format should be updated to include change in Policy
(Display Character and Take Action).
 Many of these traits are difficult to measure in introverted students.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
 Similar to comments for E-1 and E-2, the Board should consider an E-3.1 that provides items
to be measured annually.

