Monitoring Response Document
B/SR 3.1.1
Policy Monitored: EL-3, Treatment &
Communication with Public, Parents, and Students

ATTACHMENT A

1-14-16 meeting minutes

Date Report submitted: 12-10-15

Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 1-14-16
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.
progress is expected in some areas.
e. cannot be determined
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established.
e. cannot be determined

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
o The amount of communication with the public as a whole continues to be impressive.
Examples include the community discussion on start/end times; the discussion surrounding
the new math curriculum; and the plans to refresh the website in the summer of 2016.
o As in last year’s report, this report provides ample detailed examples (depth) of thoughtful
and effective communication efforts across a broad spectrum of areas and issues (from bus
traffic, to dress codes, to principal communications, etc.)
o Last year’s response to the report asked to consider expanded use of social media. This is
evident in the expanded use of the Superintendent’s Blog and the addition of the new
Bellingham Promise website.
o The construction camera at Lowell Elementary was an impressive communication device.
This allowed stakeholders with access to a computer to view progress, even if they were not
able to visit the school in person on a regular basis.
o The initial conversation regarding start/end times and the district’s response to concerns of
stakeholders, followed by a re-visit of the issue within a fairly short time frame are all worthy
of mention and are commendable.
o Creation and implementation of Highly Capable Learners Parent Advisory Committee (HCL
PAC) is commendable.
o It is great to see the Family Partnership Program up and running.
o The dress code discussion illustrated responsiveness to issues and a recognition of the values
of the local community and cultural climate. This is an example of how existing
operating policies may not always reflect the intended outcomes, thus we have a continuous
need to revise and stay abreast of current community values. It also reflects the need to extend

Monitoring Response Document
B/SR 3.1.1

ATTACHMENT A

1-14-16 meeting minutes

grace to our staff when they are trying to follow policy and do the right thing but the result
isn't always viewed as positive. It was nice to see an inclusive resolution to a sticky issue.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
o Continue to expand the delivery of materials in languages that are reflected in our school
district.
o An easily accessible community-based report on meeting Board Ends Policies (2c) needs a bit
of work.
4. Comments on the report itself.
o This is an excellent report that clearly demonstrates how the district is continuing to increase
contact with the community.
o The Superintendent demonstrates special performance in his ability to slowly, carefully and
thoroughly gather input, communicate information and create dialogue that results in
decisions that are well thought out and are owned collectively. (community engagement)
o The community newsletters (e.g., Priorities for Progress) continue to be outstanding. These
documents are highly professional, informative and very useful tools for the board and staff.
o The report had a number of links included, which was very helpful.
o A one-page executive summary/table of new initiatives, improvements, KPIs, etc. that
compares the current and previous one or two years would be helpful. The report boilerplate
can expand on these items.
o Additionally, see comment below that was previously on the Board Response to Monitoring
Report for EL-9 dated Dec. 10, 2015.
o Consider these tweaks:
 Use bold formatting to indicate new programs, improvements over last year,
awards, etc., to assist year-to-year evaluation by the board.
 Decide on a limited set of data points that are indicators of progress (as
already presented) and track them year to year, maybe only briefly in prose
form, but include a data table at the end to show change (hopefully
improvement) or trends in support of The Bellingham Promise (redirecting
resources to teaching and learning, safe and efficient teaching and learning
environments, etc.). This brings up an old issue over which the board and
administration will hopefully continue to wrestle: will EL reports simply
provide assurance that specified limits were not exceeded or will they reflect
the work of “similar and highly effective organizations,” as called out in the
EL, tracking data that supports or hinders The Bellingham Promise?
5. Possible changes to the policy.
o None recommended.

