Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT B (6/14/16 minutes)

Board Member: All – Final Compilation
Policies Monitored: Ends 2
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 6/14/16

Report submitted: 5-26-16

The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s monitoring report, including the data set,
referenced above. Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his
representatives, the Board makes the following conclusions:

1.

Ends Reports:
The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the policy.
b. is making reasonable progress towards achieving
the goals.
c. is making reasonable progress towards achieving the
goals, but a greater degree of progress is expected in
some areas.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in achieving the
goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*

1.

Executive Limitations Reports
The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. is in compliance.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
c. is making reasonable progress toward compliance.*
d. is not in compliance or is not making reasonable
progress toward compliance.*
e. cannot be determined*

*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 Partnering with institutions of higher education, strings project, Health and Wellness
Coordinator, world language credit for proficiency are all commendable developments.
 The attention to different cultures is notable. Kulshan is a standout in this regard.
 It is great to see the flourishing return to music, as evidenced by the expansion in music
programs/performance opportunities in elementary school
 The hiring of a Health and Wellness Director demonstrates commitment to developing
“healthy and active individuals.” The board looks forward to more detailed reports on this
effort next year and beyond.
 There is evidence of great staging of various technologies as we move to 1:1.
 Development of technology integration plan.
 Expanded CTE options in high school.
 Creation and continuation of Promise Academy.
 Expansion of school gardens.
 Inclusion of data from the Healthy Youth Survey this year is commendable. Last year it was
mentioned, but actual data was not included.
 The board enjoyed reading of how two of our middle schools invited five international
exchange students from Middle Eastern countries to speak to our students. That must have
been an amazing experience to witness.
 The board is impressed with the team effort in creating math materials for preschool
children. It seemed that the effort gave some real world experience to our students in a
meaningful way.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 The district needs to continue to find ways to engage all students beyond purely academics
and address the needs of the whole child. Whole child engagement is expected to have
spillover effects for academic achievement.
 The current middle school schedule does not contribute to developing students who are
proficient in all of the final three categories cited in E-2. Students must choose if they want to



pursue art, music, CTE, technology or world language. In middle school, only students with
supports outside of the school day have opportunities to pursue/develop these additional
skills. Multilingual opportunities are not universal at the elementary school level. Current
elementary and middle school multi-lingual offerings appear to be more focused on crosscultural understanding than actual multi-lingual development.
The board hopes to see more representation of Hispanic high school students in music and art
classes in the future.

4. Comments on the report itself.
 There is some redundancy in E-2 reporting with E-2.1. (See suggestions below).
 The data on population participation in Arts & Drama, Music and CTE are a much welcome
addition to the reports.
 On page 1, the upper and lower panel numbers are exactly the same. Is this a coincidence?
 Very thorough report.
 Connecting the report to The Promise website makes evidence an ongoing more dynamic
reporting process, as opposed to just one static report per year.
 In several places the report calls out areas for improvement. This is commendable.
 Re: "Historians and Global thinkers:" The board would like to see greater focus on local
cultural awareness and understanding, especially including Native American studies.
 Reviewing prior year responses that ask for additional improvements and providing specific
examples of growth would be helpful.
 "Healthy, Active Individuals" should be in Ends 3 to align with changes made in 2015
to Ends 2 and 3.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
 As noted in the response to Ends-1, if there is a desire to measure items in E-2, maybe the
board can add items to a newly created E-2.1 with specific items to be measured annually that
are not redundant with other reporting.
 The board would like to consider expanding "Historians and Global Thinkers" to include
local, cross-cultural understanding and awareness.

2

