DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
December 5, 2018
1.0
1.1
1.2

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
December 5, 2018 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason, Quenby Peterson,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
A motion was made by Ms. Bashaw to make a change in the order of agenda items by
allowing audience members who wish to address the board to do so at this time, followed
by the Annual Organization Meeting/Election of Officers and the Superintendent’s
Announcements and Report. The motion was seconded and there was unanimous
agreement to make the agenda change.

1.3

Audience:
• Amy Brewster – Is a student success coordinator at Sehome High School and a copresident of the Bellingham Association of School Employees (BASE). She talked
about the comparison of wages for classified employees statewide. She also noted
that paraprofessional positions are not entry-level positions. She shared that, despite
recent BASE gains, they cannot keep up with the cost of living.
• Anne Mackie – She lives in the York neighborhood and would like to address the
location of the school bus facility on Whatcom Creek. She asked that a new direction
be considered for the renovation. She noted that when the bus facility was built over
60 years ago that we did not have awareness regarding protecting waterways and
salmon habitats. Nine years ago, she helped to present an amendment to the York
neighborhood plan. She believes Whatcom Creek should have connected trails, and
she would like the property re-zoned. The creation of a creekside park would be
wonderful for the community. She asked that the discussion regarding relocation be
re-opened with the City of Bellingham.
• Chris Smith – Is a paraprofessional working in the intermediate Life Skills program
at Wade King Elementary and a member of BASE. He has heard that negotiations
have started well yet stated many BASE members feel that they have been forgotten
over this past year.
• Jennifer Brice – Is an occupational therapist at Columbia and Happy Valley
elementary schools and has worked in several schools since being employed in the
district. She has worked with paraprofessionals and is here to support them and their

•

•

efforts to maintain positive environments in classrooms. She believes they are the
backbone of Special Education and they help to care for all students. It is a stressful
job, and she feels there needs to be more value placed on the quality of care for our
children. She has heard that some paraprofessionals need a second job to pay rent,
and some are doing almost equal work to that of a teacher. She asked that they be
compensated appropriately.
Jim Hansen – Is a representative of the environmental caucus. He asked that a
moratorium be placed on the bus garage remodel, as he believes that keeping the bus
garage where it is presently is a problem. When we are dealing with the future of our
children, earth and community, we need to do our best. He believes that the impact of
maintaining the facility is what is problematic, and with the formation of the
governor’s orca task force, there likely will be new regulations coming. Putting
stormwater into the sewer does not make any difference, and he hopes the district will
reconsider the location of the facility.
Alex McLean – He stated that there have been public agencies who have implored
the Bellingham Public Schools to come up with an alternative location for the bus
garage. He shared that citizens do not understand how millions of dollars can be spent
to keep the location where it presently is. He said that even children know that
locating 70 diesel buses on the property is not a good idea. He said the district is not
being creative enough, and we need to step up and figure it out.

1.4

Annual Organizational Meeting, Election of Officers:
• Board President: Ms. Peterson made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to nominate
Ms. Diaz Hackler for this position for the coming year, and Ms. Hackler agreed to
serve. Unanimous affirmative vote.
• Board Vice President: Ms. Peterson made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler,
to nominate Ms. Mason for this position, and Ms. Mason agreed to serve. Ms.
Bashaw made a motion to nominate Mr. Benjamin, and he agreed to serve. After
discussion, Ms. Mason stated that, because of her interest in serving as legislative
representative, she would decline the nomination for vice president. All board
members were unanimously in favor of Mr. Benjamin being elected as Vice
President.
• The board members expressed appreciation for Ms. Bashaw’s service as President
over the past year.
• There was discussion regarding the timeline for electing a legislative representative,
and this will be discussed further during the February school board retreat.

1.5

Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Budget – Districts across the state are continuing to plan for next year’s budget, and
yesterday Dr. Baker met with a group of four other superintendents, state
superintendent Chris Reykdal and the governor. The governor listened to each
perspective regarding budgets, levies and solutions and will come out with his
proposed state budget on Dec. 13. He mentioned changes in Special Education
funding as well as the local levy changes. The governor believes the legislature
should not mandate funding, preferring more local control, and he was clear that he is
balancing multiple priorities in addition to education. Dr. Baker shared that the
2

•

•

•
•

•

•

2.0

district’s executive team recently spent a day looking at the 2019 budget and
reviewing results from the budget survey. The survey reflects that multiple employee
groups feel they have not received their fair share of compensation. A follow-up
message will be forthcoming.
Attendance Area – Communities are starting to engage on the topic of attendance
areas. The Attendance Areas PreK-12 Standing Committee co-chairs will be meeting
with the Columbia neighborhood on Dec. 11. The goal would be that any community
that will be impacted by attendance area changes will be engaged in conversations
prior to a formal recommendation being made.
Transportation Facility – District representatives have been working with the City
to investigate the availability of an alternative location for the transportation garage.
There has been some miscommunication from the mayor to the public recently, and
the mayor will be clarifying her message. There is a misconception that a new
building is being built, but it is a remodel of the existing structure. The district
remains open to work with partners to investigate another location.
Central Kitchen – The ribbon cutting ceremony was well attended.
Sehome – Construction is still on track to begin using the gym after students return
from winter break, with the full school facility being ready when second semester
begins on Jan. 30, 2019. There will be opportunities to say goodbye to the old school
and to tour to the new school.
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion – The key strategies of The Bellingham Promise
have been re-drafted by adding a sixth strategy. Once the final draft document has
been completed, it will be shared with staff and the community for feedback. Hate
crimes and anti-Semitism have been topics of conversation recently. The Whatcom
Human Rights Task Force has been working with the district to use their concept of a
poster that can be used as a tool and hung in our schools.
Listening Post – There was a question from a board member about a recent Listening
Post message regarding property being for sale across from Options High School. Dr.
Baker shared that, after engaging his team, it was considered to not be a high priority
that needed to be investigated further.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Peterson indicated that an immediate family member is working with two firms
(Dawson Construction and Dykeman Architecture) that the district has retained for the
Sehome High School construction project. To avoid a conflict of interest per RCW
42.23.030, Ms. Peterson will recuse herself from voting on item 2.3 (Approval of
Expenditures and Payroll). Ms. Peterson made a motion to vote on item 2.3 separately.
Ms. Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.4

Approval of Minutes of the Oct. 30, 2018 Linkage Meeting; Nov. 6, 2018 School
Visit; Nov. 7, 2018 Regular Meeting; and Nov. 15, 2018 Special Meeting
Approval of Investments – November 2018
Resolution 29-18, Acceptance of State Study and Survey
3

2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18

Resolution 31-18, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Approve Dedication of Public Improvements
Authorization to Call for Bids – Transportation Garage Improvement Project
Approve Updated Policy 6220
Revise Student Activities Pay Schedule
Monitoring Report EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution
Whatcom Community College, College in the High School Agreement (#1819-076)
Bellingham Lacrosse Clubs (#1819-086)
Mount Baker School District Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational
Services-Physical Therapist (#1819-090)
OSPI Perkins Application Plan (#1819-093)
Ferndale, Lynden, Meridian and Mt. Baker School District Interlocal Agreement
(#1819-096)
Agreement for Services with A-One Medical Services, Inc.
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda item:

2.3

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – October 2018, November 2018
Affirmative votes: Ms. Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason.
Abstention: Ms. Peterson.

3.0
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Monitoring Report Ends 2.1, Part 1 – Student Competence
Dr. Mike Copland, Deputy Superintendent, and Brian Rick, Director of Research and
Assessment, discussed the report and data set and answered questions from the board.
Ms. Diaz Hackler thanked Dr. Copland, Mr. Rick and all who helped to put the report
together.

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1 Expectations of Superintendent
Ms. Peterson noted that this agenda item was carried over from the Nov. 7, 2018 regular
meeting. She believes, after reviewing other districts’ policies, that this might be better
addressed at the February retreat. Review of this policy will be added to the list of
potential agenda items for the retreat, as well as the process for compiling the final
response document.
Ms. Peterson made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the monitoring
response document as presented (Attachment A). Unanimous affirmative vote.

4

5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
• Ms. Bashaw attended a Native American curriculum breakout at the WSSDA
conference, which was interesting. She also attended Superintendent Reykdal’s visit
at Options High School on Nov. 20, which was well facilitated.
• Mr. Benjamin attended a breakout session at WSSDA that featured a teacher who
duplicated himself using video recorded lessons. That teacher is now working in
Monroe, focusing on strengths-based growth. Mr. Benjamin stated he would like to
include more student voice after attending a workshop related to that. He distributed
copies of a toolkit that was put together by Riverview School District and requested
that the board spend some time reviewing it at the February retreat.
• Ms. Mason’s WSSDA takeaway was attending the legislative assembly, which was
fairly contentious. There were several interesting conversations on equity. She also
attended Superintendent Reykdal’s visit and was appreciative to tie what is happening
here into what is happening across the state. The school visit to Kulshan was lovely,
and she was especially impressed with the Launch program portion of the visit.
• Ms. Peterson appreciated seeing the continuity of middle school and high school at
the Kulshan Middle School board visit. If students view themselves as struggling,
how do you get them out of that mindset?
• Ms. Diaz Hackler was disappointed in the lack of diversity and inclusion options
available at the WSSDA conference. The equity breakfast was also a disappointment.
The career connected pathways discussion was interesting, particularly the focus on
paid internships. She also attended Superintendent Reykdal’s presentation and the
Central Kitchen ribbon cutting.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business (as needed): n/a

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Diaz Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:57 p.m.

6.1

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

5

