DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 16, 2019
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
October 16, 2019 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly
Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Jenn Mason, Quenby
Peterson, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). She acknowledged
that this meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coastal Salish people.
Audience:
• Emily O’Connor – Executive Director of Lydia Place, a nonprofit, community-based
agency serving individuals and families experiencing homelessness. She described a
multi-year project to develop the Heart House facility, an 11-unit apartment complex
near Civic Field. The complex will include a licensed child care facility, intensive
parenting support, as well as mental health and other wraparound services for
families. It is hoped that the ground breaking and construction will begin in the spring
of 2020. Input and feedback are encouraged. She thanked the district for its work on
behalf of families.
• Johann Neem - Parent of students attending Columbia Elementary. He does not
agree that the word “citizen” should have been removed from The Bellingham
Promise. The Bellingham Promise is a strategic plan which holds the district
accountable. Citizenship is more than legal status and encourages citizens to be a part
of public life. Do we not think that our democracy needs this more than ever? He was
surprised by the change and does not find the word “citizen” objectionable.
• Keith Allex – Painter for the school district. He would like to thank the
administration and district bargaining team. He’s thankful for the hard work that the
school board, Dr. Baker and administration do each day and would like to thank the
school board for voting to approve the contract with Service Employees’ International
Union 925 (SEIU) this evening.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• A community meeting was held at Northern Heights Elementary last evening
regarding concerns that a parent of a Northern Heights student is a Level III sexual
offender. District staff has been working to understand and interpret the law and have
met with law enforcement officials. Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and
Learning Steve Clarke, Northern Heights principal Pam Pottle, Director of School
Safety and Emergency Management Jonah Stinson, a detective from the Whatcom
County Sheriff’s office and Dr. Baker attended the community meeting and stayed

•

•

•

•

2.0

after the meeting to answer questions from those in attendance. Some families
believe any level II or III sexual offender should not be allowed on school grounds.
Staff and legal counsel are reviewing the law and working to fine tune district policy
and procedure. Our current policy and procedure are based on the WSSDA model.
We are gearing up for adding two levies to the February 2020 ballot: operations and
technology. Dr. Baker outlined some changes the state legislature has made, which
allow districts to use levy dollars to pay for vehicles and maintenance equipment. At
the next board meeting there will likely be resolutions presented to give the
authorization to move forward with adding the levies to the ballot.
The Attendance Areas PreK-12 Standing Committee has been meeting for the past 18
months and recently submitted its recommendation. The recommendation does not
contain any surprises, only a definitive recommendation for changes in the attendance
areas beginning in the fall of 2021 and 2022. The committee did a great job
processing with the community. Once the recommendation is shared with the public,
Dr. Baker will be happy to engage in further conversations. There will likely be some
families who may not want to wait for the changes, and staff will work with those
families individually using the district transfer process.
In connection with the Parkview Educational Specifications/Design Advisory
Committee, there is a possibility that land adjacent to the Parkview school property
will become available for purchase. District staff is exploring the possibility of a
purchase of that property.
The district and Dr. Baker were recognized by the Washington Traffic Safety
Education Association at their state conference in Renton on Oct. 12, 2019. Of the
296 districts in the state of Washington, Bellingham is the only district offering traffic
safety education during the school day, at no cost to students and families. Dr. Baker
shared that moving our high schools to an eight-period day helped to make this
possible for our students. He gave kudos to Steve Clarke and Director of Teaching
and Learning Jeff Tetrick for their work to make this possible.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Peterson indicated that an immediate family member has been working with a firm
(Lithtex NW) that the district frequently does business with. To avoid a conflict of
interest per RCW 42.23.030, Ms. Peterson will recuse herself from voting on item 2.2
(Approval of Expenditures and Payroll). Ms. Peterson made a motion to vote on item 2.2
separately. Ms. Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1
2.3
2.4
2.5

Approval of Minutes of the Sept. 18, 2019 Regular Meeting, Oct. 1, 2019 School
Board Visit and Oct. 9, 2019 Special Board Meeting
Resolutions 21-19 and 22-19, Assurance of Racial Balance for Alderwood
Elementary and Parkview Elementary Rebuilds
Resolution 23-19, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Hire Appraiser for Property Appraisal
2

2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17

2019-20 iGrants 217 Form Package-Highly Capable Program Plan
Approve Updated Policies 2255, 2410 and 2415
The Partners Group, LTD Contract (#1920-062)
Washington Student Achievement Council (#1920-073)
University of Washington-College in the High School Agreement (#1920-076)
Aperture Education Agreement (#1920-083)
Mount Vernon School District – LPN Services (#1920-089)
Everett Community College Interagency Agreement (#1920-091)
Kaiser Permanente Grant Agreement (#1920-092)
Sendan Center Agreement for Services
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the following consent
agenda item:

2.2

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – September 2019
Affirmative votes: Ms. Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason.
Abstention: Ms. Peterson.

3.0
3.1

3.2

3.3

4.0
4.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE MONITORING
EL-1 Monitoring Report – Expectations of Superintendent
In keeping with Policy Governance, the report on EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent,
was presented and will be reviewed at the November 20, 2019 regular meeting.
EL-5 Monitoring Report – Communication and Counsel to the Board
In keeping with Policy Governance, the report on EL-5, Communication and Counsel to
the Board, was presented and will be reviewed at the November 20, 2019 regular
meeting.
EL-10 Monitoring Report – Race and Equity
In keeping with Policy Governance, the report on EL-10, Race and Equity, was presented
and will be reviewed at the November 20, 2019 regular meeting.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports: Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Mason enjoyed the visit to Lowell Elementary and thought it was a nice format
with freedom to visit classrooms. She was especially impressed with one teacher’s
passion for working in the BRIDGES (Behavior Re-Education in Developing Growth
and Emotional Strength) classroom. She attended the WSSDA legislative assembly in
September, where race and equity were the center of many discussions. She would
like the board to consider sending more than one representative to the assembly in the
future. Ms. Mason will be visiting Wade King Elementary next Friday morning for an
all-school meeting.

3

•

4.2

Mr. Benjamin is registered for the regional WSSDA meeting in Granite Falls on Oct.
26 (11-2:30).
• Ms. Diaz Hackler also visited a BRIDGES classroom while at Lowell, and she
enjoyed hearing from the principal and teachers. Last evening, she attended a
Parkview PTO meeting, where some families expressed a need for a flashing speed
limit sign near the school. She noted that Western Washington University recently
opened a multi-cultural center and shared her belief that it’s important for students to
feel welcome and centered, and she’s happy WWU has made that investment for
higher ed students.
• Ms. Bashaw attended a great FAFSA workshop event at Squalicum High School.
Unfortunately, the IRS website was down for most of the event. By her estimate there
were more Spanish language speakers than English, and it would have been helpful to
have more interpreters available for families.
• Ms. Peterson attended a college fair with her daughter at Sehome High School, which
included a breakout session with a WWU presenter focused on financial aid. She
noted that it’s interesting how much is unknown to parents related to financial aid,
which makes it difficult for parents to help their students. It’s possible that she may
not be able to attend the student roundtable on Nov. 6.
GP-7.2 – 2019-20 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.

5.0
5.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business (as needed): n/a

5.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:32 p.m.

6.2

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

