DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
January 9, 2019
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

•

•

1.4

•

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
January 9, 2019 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Diaz Hackler Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. Present: Directors
Kelly Bashaw, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason,
Quenby Peterson, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). She
acknowledged that this meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coastal
Salish people.
Audience:
Warren Sheay – He has been a resident of the York neighborhood for approximately 25
years. He thanked the board for its dedication and the quality education for students.
About 10 years ago there was a recommendation that the transportation garage property
be vacated to make way for affordable housing, and the recommendation was
unanimously endorsed by the Bellingham City Council. The City of Bellingham Planning
Department did not follow through to make this happen. He attended the York
neighborhood meeting last night and listened to the testimony, and many believe diesel
fuel is a danger to the creek, salmon and orca whales. Our schools teach students about
the importance of clean water. He asked that the district discuss this matter further with
the City of Bellingham.
Alex McLean – He lives in the Happy Valley neighborhood. There were approximately
30 people at the York neighborhood meeting last night, which included politicians and
school district personnel. He appreciates that the bus barn needs to be remodeled but
noted that a lot of money is being spent to save the orcas. The time is right to show the
community we can do better things on Whatcom creek. We need to set an example for
the kids and community and get creative to do what it takes to save the creek.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
Attendance Areas Committee – Assistant Superintendent Steve Clarke and Executive
Director Jay Jordan attended a meeting at Parkview to update the community about the
attendance areas process and to hear from community members their viewpoints. The
Attendance Areas PreK-12 Standing Committee will continue to meet approximately
once per month and recommendations will come when they are ready. Dr. Baker
attended a parent group meeting at Columbia last night, where there was interest
regarding the attendance areas work.

•
•

•

•

•

2.0

Transportation Garage – District staff also attended the York neighborhood meeting
last evening. An alternative location for the transportation garage has not emerged, but if
someone comes forward with another solution, it can be investigated.
Facilities Updates:
o The central kitchen is complete, and we are in the process of hiring staff to work at
the kitchen, including a Food Services Culinary Program Supervisor. Staff is learning
to use the new equipment at the kitchen.
o The new gym opened for students last week at Sehome High School. The entire
building will be open for students and staff at the beginning of second semester.
o On the topic of the district office project, we have learned that our third-party
appraisal of the property on Barkley Boulevard would allow the district to consider
purchasing the property, pending feedback from our community. We will continue to
have conversations about the district office, which will include an update to the
broader community and a request for input.
o The district has been working with the City of Bellingham on the Parkview project,
and the architect has been asked to adapt the plans for the new school.
o The district has been working with Whatcom County officials to revise the current
restrictions on the Alderwood property.
Budget – Dr. Baker has attended 39 staff and parent group meetings, with five
remaining. The governor’s proposal seems to be relatively good in terms of impact to our
district, and we are now awaiting the legislature’s proposal. Any proposed changes to the
current levy structure would not be in effect until 2020. The district budget process will
begin soon.
Promise K – On January 28, we will begin the sixth year of Promise K. Currently there
are 111 students registered at seven sites, with Birchwood being added as a new site this
year. Assessments were held at the district office last week, with staff here to meet
students.
School Board Recognition – In observance of School Board Recognition Month, Dr.
Baker thanked members of our school board on behalf of students, staff, the executive
team and our community. Directors were presented with greeting cards signed by
students from directors’ adopted schools.
CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Peterson indicated that an immediate family member is working with two firms
(Dawson Construction and Dykeman Architecture) that the district has retained for the
Sehome High School construction project. She also indicated that an immediate family
member is on the board of the Brigid Collins Family Support Center. To avoid a conflict
of interest per RCW 42.23.030, Ms. Peterson will recuse herself from voting on items 2.3
(Approval of Expenditures and Payroll) and 2.7 (Brigid Collins Family Support Center
Memorandum of Understanding). Ms. Peterson made a motion to vote on item 2.3
separately. Ms. Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2

2.1
2.2
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11

Approval of Minutes of the Dec. 4, 2018 School Visit and the Dec. 5, 2018 Regular
Meeting
Approval of Investments – December 2018
Resolution 1-19, Cancellation of Stale-Dated Checks
Grant Easement to City of Bellingham for Public Access Trail
EL-3 – Treatment and Communication with Public, Parents and Students
Aerospace Joint Apprenticeship Committee Memorandum of Understanding
(#1819-103)
Ferndale School District Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational
Services – Squalicum Boys Swim (#1819-109)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.3
2.7

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – December 2018
Brigid Collins Family Support Center Memorandum of Understanding (#1819-099)
Affirmative votes: Ms. Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason.
Abstention: Ms. Peterson.

3.0
3.1

3.2

3.3

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Board Response to Monitoring Report Ends 2.1, Part 1 – Student Competence
At the December 5, 2018 regular meeting, the board heard a monitoring report, which
included a data set, on Ends 2.1 (part 1). In accordance with policy governance, the board
discussed whether the superintendent has achieved the goals established in the policy (see
Attachment A for a summary of comments).
Board Response to Monitoring Report – EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution
At the December 5, 2018 regular meeting, the consent agenda included a monitoring
report on EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution. In accordance with policy governance,
the board discussed whether the superintendent is in compliance with the policy (see
Attachment B for a summary of comments).
Review and Discussion of Possible Revisions to GPs 1-6
Governance Process Policies GP-1 through GP-6 are reviewed annually in January. After
discussion, it was agreed that minor changes to GP-3 and GP-4 should be made to replace
the word “citizens” with “community members”. Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded
by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the changes as noted (Attachments C and D). Unanimous
affirmative vote.

3

4.0
4.1

•
•

•
•

•

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Ms. Mason enjoyed yesterday’s board visit to Roosevelt Elementary. She especially liked
the conversation about school culture and hearing about social emotional learning. She
appreciates the leadership at Roosevelt.
Mr. Benjamin also liked the Roosevelt school visit and was impressed with the
integration of technology and art into a science lesson. He told principal Tom Gresham
that he should consider presenting at a conference. Mr. Benjamin met with an auditor
today as a part of the annual state audit. The meeting was focused on whether there was
anything that the board is concerned about with regards to finance.
Ms. Bashaw shared that she appreciated Roosevelt principal Tom Gresham’s personal
stories, as well as the culture and climate at the school visit.
Ms. Peterson appreciated the example of integration at Roosevelt. She recently read a
Washington Post article entitled “There is no room for ‘average’ students these days.
Here’s why that worries me.” She feels it is applicable considering Ends 2.1 (Part 1) and
test scores. Ms. Peterson has some family obligations that conflict with the upcoming
WSSDA Legislative Conference and the school board retreat. Ms. Diaz Hackler added
that she also is not able to attend the retreat. Dr. Baker will offer some optional retreat
dates. Ms. Peterson also noted that she was able to tour the new Sehome High School
yesterday.
Ms. Diaz Hackler very much enjoyed the Roosevelt visit yesterday and especially liked
Tom Gresham’s comment about laughing at staff meetings.

5.0
5.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business (as needed): n/a

6.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable). Good focus on policies.
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:12 p.m.

6.1

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

