DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 19, 2019

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
June 19, 2019 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly
Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Jenn Mason, Quenby
Peterson, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). She acknowledged that
this meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of Indigenous Peoples, in particular
the Lummi Nation and the Nooksack tribe.
Audience:
• Rick Kiene – He has been looking on the website and would like to know what the
private purpose fund is about. He expressed concern that the district is looking at
moving the district offices rather than remodeling the current building and asked if
that had been publicly disclosed, as the funding for the renovation several years ago
was used for another purpose. He owns property in the Birchwood neighborhood
where there seems to be a high rate of crime, and he wonders what the school board
and administration can do to help.
• Keith Allex – He has been a painter for Bellingham Public Schools for over 15 years
and has served on the board of Service Employees International Union 925 (SEIU) as
well as the SEIU bargaining team. He asked that members of SEIU receive the same
respect as the teachers who were represented by the Bellingham Education
Association (BEA). Members of the Bellingham Association of School Employees
(BASE) and SEIU believe in The Promise and how it has influenced students, and he
would ask that they be treated as members of the team.
• Maria Moench – She has worked at Carl Cozier Elementary as a food service lead
and in that position, she wears many hats. She told the story of assisting a student
who was choking in the lunchroom. She knows all of the students’ names and cares
about them and she asks that the district provide a fair contract for SEIU members.
• Cynthia Dumas – She has been an employee in the district for six years as well as
the parent of students in the district for 14 years. She is currently the food service lead
at Shuksan Middle School and has served as co-president of SEIU. On any given day
she serves in several roles, and she considers it a passion as well as a job. Nourishing
children every day is important. She is advocating for a fair and living wage and asks
that the district bargain in good faith.

•

1.4

2.0

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7

Chris Smith – Is a member of BASE, a paraprofessional at Wade King and is here
this evening in support of members of SEIU. The job descriptions of SEIU workers
do not cover what they do throughout the day. They are there for all students every
day, even for students with special dietary or sensory needs, and they improve the
lives of our students. Day and evening custodians go above and beyond the call of
duty, including welcoming students to school and giving students jobs to do.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• High school graduations were all held within the last week, and tomorrow is an early
dismissal and the last day of school.
• Negotiations with employee groups will continue throughout the summer.
• Dr. Baker asked Dr. Mike Copland, deputy superintendent, and Dawn Christiana,
director of teaching and learning, to give an update with regard to highly capable
learners. Ms. Christiana reviewed data and answered questions from board members.
Dr. Copland thanked Ms. Christiana for the work she has done in her role as a
director over the past four years. She will be leaving the district to serve as the
principal of Irene Reither Elementary in the Meridian School District.
• A budget message went out to staff today and included information that not as many
cuts will be made as were originally anticipated. Staff positions are being fine-tuned;
the Squalicum theater will be receiving new curtains; Bellingham High’s theater will
receive a new sound system; and some funds will be added back into department and
school building budgets. In past years, staffing additions occur for paraeducators via
an “above baseline process” throughout the school year. A new plan regarding hiring
will create less uncertainty for next year due to the district hiring those paraeducators
earlier.
CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items:
Approval of Minutes of the May 29, 2019 Community Linkage Special Meeting;
June 4, 2019 School Board Visit; and June 5, 2019 Regular Meeting
Food Service Meal Price Increase 2019-20
Whatcom Dispute Resolution Center Agreement for Services
FACES Northwest Agreement for Services (#1819-163)
Franklin Covey Client Sales, Inc. Agreement (#1920-011)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

The motion passed with directors Bashaw, Benjamin, Douglas and Diaz Hackler voting in favor,
and director Peterson against.
3.0
3.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Review of Monitoring Response Summaries – EL-7; EL-4; EL-6; EL-8; Ends 2.1,
Part 3
Ms. Diaz Hackler presented summaries of the combined responses for EL-7 (Attachment
A), EL-4 (Attachment B), EL-6 (Attachment C), EL-8 (Attachment D) and Ends 2.1, Part
3 (Attachment E). These summaries will be added to the website.
2

4.0
4.1

4.2

•

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
• Mr. Benjamin attended the “Brother Ray’s Benefit” for sixth grade band at Boundary
Bay, which had great music and was fun and low-key. He also attended the
Bellingham High School dance team parent meeting and was surprised at how much
it costs students to participate. The eighth-grade graduation at Whatcom Middle
School today was a well-organized, fun ceremony.
• Ms. Mason also attended the fundraiser at Boundary Bay and noted that it was
wonderful to see the community’s support. The graduations at Bellingham and
Sehome high schools were great. She attended the life skills picnic at Elizabeth Park,
and it was lovely to see the students having so much fun. So much work goes towards
loving and supporting our students.
• Ms. Peterson attended the Sehome and Community Transitions graduations.
• Ms. Bashaw attended the graduation at Options as an audience member and thought it
was great, although it was very hot in the building. She also attended the Bellingham
and Squalicum graduation ceremonies and enjoyed seeing the excitement of the
students.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler was impressed that Options had nearly triple the number of
graduates in comparison to just a few years ago. She attended the Community
Transitions graduation last night, and it was fun to see how the world is wide open to
the graduates.
School Board Committee Reports
Ms. Mason gave an update on Policy 1400 “Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and
Quorum”. At a recent meeting, Ms. Mason, Ms. Peterson, Dr. Baker and Jackie Brawley,
director of Communications and Community Relations, met and recommend that
WSSDA’s most current version of the policy be adopted, leaving out the portion
regarding scheduling speakers ahead of time. Staff will work on the policy update for
approval at a future meeting.

5.0

NEW BUSINESS
No new business.

6.0
6.1

PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Performance Review of a Public Employee
Dr. Baker noted that the superintendent’s evaluation occurs throughout the year, based on
the monitoring reports of Ends and Executive Limitations, followed by an executive
session at the end of the school year where the evaluation is discussed in a closed
executive session. He asked if the board would prefer to conduct the evaluation during
the regular, public portion of the meeting. There was discussion regarding the idea, and
the board agreed to conduct the evaluation without entering executive session.
Ms. Diaz Hackler reviewed some of the highlights from the EL-2 and EL-5 monitoring
reports and the directors discussed Dr. Baker’s performance. Comments from the board
members included the fact that all Executive Limitations were found to be in compliance
and that all reasonable progress is being made on all Ends; Dr. Baker attending staff
3

meetings and parent group meetings at each school over the first few months of the
school year should be commended; in light of the unsteadiness of the state budget, we are
in a good place when considering the volatility that has been experienced in other
districts; the board appreciates how Dr. Baker keeps them apprised of happenings within
the district. Mr. Benjamin commended Dr. Baker for his communication efforts to staff
and the community.
Dr. Baker thanked the school board members for their support and feedback throughout
the year, thanked the executive team for their work and stated that it is an honor to serve
this district.
There was discussion regarding the WSSDA self-assessment and developing a board selfimprovement plan. The board decided to not take the self-assessment again this year and
to instead continue focusing on the data from this last year.
7.0
7.1
7.2

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Peterson assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 3 (good).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:24 p.m.

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

