DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 27, 2019
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
February 27, 2019 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Diaz Hackler Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Present: Directors
Kelly Bashaw, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason,
Quenby Peterson, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). She
acknowledged that this meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coastal
Salish people.
Audience:
• Chris Smith – Is a paraprofessional working in the Life Skills program at Wade King
Elementary and a member of BASE. He is grateful for the IPAC hours that were
given to BASE members. It is nice to feel that their concerns have been heard.
• John Blethen – Is a community member here to speak about the bus garage and the
district administration building. He would like to see the buses relocated off
Whatcom Creek in order to protect the creek. He believes the district administrative
offices should be moved to the site of the current transportation facility.
• Todd Lagester – Is a community member who is concerned about emergency
management as it pertains to the bus garage. Following a recent fire in downtown
Bellingham, there was a large amount of water and debris, and he believes that should
be an impetus for the district to relocate the bus garage away from the creek. He also
heard that the district is looking at a site in the Barkley district for the district
administration offices. He believes it would be in the best interest of the City of
Bellingham for that property to be used by another business, which would generate
additional tax income for the city.
• Alex McLean – Is a resident of the Happy Valley neighborhood and will continue to
attend board meetings to voice concern about the location of the bus barn. He stated
that the City of Bellingham is co-owner of the property where the buses are parked.
He encourages the district and the community to find an alternative location for the
buses.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker acknowledged that there are some visitors observing this evening’s meeting
as a part of their superintendent course.
• Messaging went out today regarding the revised student calendar and plan for making
up February’s seven snow days.

•

•

Capital Projects:
o Since the last board meeting, Sehome High School has opened to students.
o A community meeting was held last evening regarding the location of the
district office. Three neighbors and one community member attended. Those
in attendance understood that the current space will not serve the district well
in the future, and they were interested in what would go into the Dupont Street
property if sold. Dr. Baker briefly shared the slides and photos from the
meeting.
o Executive Director of Capital Projects and School Facilities Ron Cowan
reviewed the location of the transportation facility. He noted that the City of
Bellingham will be commissioning a survey to locate the property line
between the property owned by the district and that owned by the City of
Bellingham. No alternative sites have been identified for the transportation
garage. The current central location helps to minimize emissions, time and
costs.
o A planning and design committee met in November and December regarding
the new Shuksan gym, and a student forum and neighborhood forum also took
place. The new gym will be located at the back of the school adjacent to the
bus loop. The gym will contain a full-sized basketball court, two middle
school courts, spectator seating, equipment storage and restrooms that are
accessible from inside and outside.
Budget – Budget proposals should be submitted by legislators by the end of March.
Several Washington school districts are announcing large cuts at this time so that the
public is aware of what is coming for the 2019-20 school year. There are currently many
bills in debate, including some that make changes in the levy cap. Tension across the
state is building.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the Jan. 8, 2019 School Board Visit, Jan. 9, 2019 Regular
Meeting and Jan. 21, 2019 Special Meeting
Approval of Investments – January 2019
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – January 2019
Approval of Donations
Resolution 2-19, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
EL-4 Monitoring Report: Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Approve Updated Policy 1111
Approve Updated Policy 6220
Affirmative Action Plan 2019-2024
Ellison Travel and Tours, LTD (#1819-083)
Washington Student Achievement Council Data Sharing Agreement (#1819-117)
Qualtrics Service Order (#1819-124)

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12

2

2.13
2.14

Shew Design Agreement for Services
Personnel Recommendations

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

3.2

3.3

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Monitoring Report Ends 2.1, Part 2 – Student Competence
Dr. Mike Copland, Deputy Superintendent, and Brian Rick, Director of Research and
Assessment, discussed the report and data set and answered questions from the board.
Revision to EL-1 Expectations of Superintendent
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the proposed
changes to EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent (Attachment A). Unanimous affirmative
vote.
Revision to EL 9.1 Facility Improvement or Development Involving Bond Issuances
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the proposed changes
to EL-9.1, Facility Improvement or Development Involving Bond Issuances (Attachment
B). Unanimous affirmative vote.

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-3 Treatment and Communication with Public,
Parents and Students
After discussion, Ms. Peterson made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve
the monitoring response document (Attachment C). Unanimous affirmative vote.

5.0
5.1

STUDY SESSION – COMMUNITY HEALTH
Study Session Re: Community Health
Wellness Coordinator Jessica Sankey facilitated a presentation to the board regarding the
health of students in the Bellingham Public Schools. Contributing as panel members for
the presentation were:
•
•
•

Jen Reidel, Whatcom County Health Department
Katie Stanford, Environmental Health Specialist, Whatcom County Health
Department
Debra Wilkowski, school nurse assigned to Birchwood and Shuksan.

Following the presentation, the panel answered questions from the school board
members.
6.0
6.1

6.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
• Mr. Benjamin visited the Whatcom Middle School student who designed the artwork
on the cards that were presented to the school board members at the January 9, 2019
board meeting.
• Ms. Peterson attended the Sehome High School ribbon cutting with the other board
members.
GP-7.2 – 2018-19 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.
3

7.0
7.1

•
•

8.0
8.1
8.2

NEW BUSINESS
New Business (as needed):
There was general discussion regarding the roles for the March 13 board orientation
meeting.
There was general discussion regarding board linkages.
CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Peterson assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 8:10 p.m.

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

