DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 13, 2019
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
March 13, 2019 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly
Bashaw, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason, Quenby
Peterson, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). She acknowledged that
this meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of Indigenous Peoples, in particular
the Lummi Nation and the Nooksack tribe.
Audience:
• Chris Smith – Is a paraprofessional working in the Life Skills program at Wade King
Elementary. He wished everyone a happy Education Support Professionals week and
stated that he understands BASE bargaining is off to a good start.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker shared that some students are preparing to advocate for their beliefs on
Friday, March 15 by participating in a walkout and rally to protest government
inaction on climate change. Administrators will continue to monitor the situation, and
the expectation is that parents will need to excuse students who leave campus.
• Since the last school board meeting, Dr. Baker has met with district office staff and
the district leadership team to share feedback from the community regarding
relocating the district office to the Barkley area. Feedback has been positive, and the
district is beginning the process to purchase the Barkley property.
• Executive Director of Capital Projects and School Facilities Ron Cowan addressed
some public comments that have been made regarding the district school buses being
parked on City of Bellingham property. The city has provided an updated map that
shows the property line. Mr. Cowan answered questions from school board members.
• Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Kristi Dominguez gave the board an
update on Promise Kindergarten (Promise K). She shared that there are more
locations than in past years, with Birchwood being added as a site. She talked about
the parent education night that occurs once per month at each site. On those nights,
families are provided with dinner and childcare, and there has been close to 100%
attendance. Many other school districts are interested in learning about the program,
and Highline, Richland and Puyallup school districts are scheduled to visit this spring.
Some neighboring Whatcom County districts have already started their own Promise
K programs.

•

•

•

Executive Director of Communications and Community Relations Jackie Brawley
demonstrated updates to the school board section of the website. The school board
now has its own tab, and a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) section has been
added related to policy governance. School board members made some suggestions
for additional changes.
Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning Steve Clarke and Executive
Director of Teaching and Learning Jay Jordan, co-chairs of the Attendance Areas
PreK-12 Standing Committee, gave an update on the committee’s work. Due to
growth on the north side of the city, some schools are over capacity for enrollment.
The committee has been meeting and will likely submit a recommendation this spring
that will change the attendance areas for all four middle schools beginning in the fall
of 2020. The committee is considering the factors that are outlined in Policy 3130.
Mr. Clarke and Dr. Jordan have met with many neighborhood groups and individual
families who have expressed concern about the changes, and they will be meeting
with a group of Silver Beach families to walk their neighborhood, as the families
don’t feel that students will have safe walking routes if the attendance areas are
changed. Questions from the board members were answered by Mr. Clarke and Dr.
Jordan.
Dr. Baker noted that the legislature is still in session and working on the state budget.
Budget proposals will likely begin coming out in the next few weeks. Dr. Baker and
his team are working on a draft district budget and are planning to send a message to
the community regarding the budget by spring break. There is hope that there may be
some new sources of revenue that could put the district in a better position than was
originally thought. He outlined some areas that will likely be affected by reductions.
He noted that some staff will be added to special education due to higher enrollment,
as well as in grades K-3 because of new class size ratio rules. Dr. Baker responded to
questions from board members.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the Feb. 27, 2019 Regular Meeting and March 5, 2019
School Board Visit
Approval of Investments – February 2019
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – February 2019
Approval of Donations
Resolution 3-19, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Letter Requesting Waiver of School Days
Approve Updated Policies 6890 and 6957
EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection
Impact Applications, Inc. Services Agreement (#1819-127)
Whatcom Community College Soccer Field (#1819-128)
Cardea Services Agreement (#1819-131)
Personnel Recommendations

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12

2

2.13

Personal Services Contracts

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

3.2

4.0
4.1

4.2

POLICY GOVERNANCE MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and
Evaluation
After discussion, Ms. Peterson made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the
monitoring response document (Attachment A). Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – Ends 2.1 (Part 2) – Student Competence
After discussion, Ms. Bashaw made a motion to approve the monitoring response
document (Attachment B). Unanimous affirmative vote.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
• Mr. Benjamin shared that during he spent time with teachers and students at Mt.
Baker during the snow days. He also noted that the Hungry Minds luncheon today
was very inspiring.
• Ms. Mason attended the Big Consent event, which was a good experience engaging
with students on an important subject.
• Ms. Peterson talked about a plan on the part of some students to provide a survey on
sexual assault and then send the compiled results to the district. She noted that there is
a town hall meeting in Nooksack on March 16, which will be attended by Doug
Ericksen and Luanne Van Werven. WSSDA is putting together a Day on the Hill on
March 19 due to the event in February being cancelled. Ms. Peterson attended and
enjoyed the Little Mermaid performance at Bellingham High School. She also
enjoyed the board visit to the Bellingham Family Partnership Program, which has a
nice program and hopes it can become accessible to more families.
• Ms. Bashaw has been attending the Community Truancy Board meetings and is
surprised to see so many young students not going to school. She wonders about the
possibility of an alternative middle school in the future.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler attended the Eco Hip Hop Performance and Conversation with DJ
Cavem and Alkemia at Options High School on March 6, which was very fun. She
also enjoyed the visit to the Bellingham Family Partnership Program and today’s
Hungry Minds luncheon.
GP-7.2 – 2018-19 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.

5.0

NEW BUSINESS
• Ms. Diaz Hackler noted that there are some conferences focusing on equity and
diversity coming up, including one offered by WSSDA.
• There was general discussion about the transportation garage project.

6.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Mason assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.

6.2

3

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

