DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 20, 2019
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
November 20, 2019 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly
Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Jenn Mason, Quenby
Peterson, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). She acknowledged
that this meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coastal Salish people.
Audience:
• Ken Taylor – Is the parent of an elementary school student. Last week there was a
bus delay in the afternoon due to a substitute driver making a wrong turn on the route.
Mr. Taylor expressed concern that there was not enough information received from
transportation or the school about the delay, which caused confusion for the parents
regarding where their students would be dropped off. When he later picked his child
up from Sehome High School, he was not asked for any identification. He believes
this is a safety issue.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker gave an update on the district’s capital projects, including the installation
of approximately 6,350 square feet of solar panels on Sehome High School. The
panels were donated by Silfab, and the labor to install the panels was donated by
VECA Electric. Dawson Construction contributed $100,000 to the solar array costs.
The electricity generated from the solar panels will be supplied to Puget Sound
Energy and the annual rebates will offset electricity costs. The district is considering
purchasing .25 acres of property that is adjacent to the Parkview property, and Dr.
Baker shared how this purchase would enhance the replacement school site. This was
shared with Parkview’s educational specifications committee today, and the
authorization for the purchase is on this evening’s consent agenda.
• Dr. Baker introduced Pinky Vargas, Energy Efficiency Outreach Manager for Puget
Sound Energy (PSE). Ms. Vargas and other PSE representatives are here to recognize
the Bellingham Public Schools facilities team for the great job they do conserving
energy. She congratulated Buildings and Grounds Director Mike Anderson and
Buildings and Grounds Supervisor Evan Schmitt for their work which saved
4,131,101 kilowatt hours, resulting in a $416,532 annual savings on the district’s
utility bill as well as $563,392 received in rebates. This is the equivalent of removing
620 cars from the road or powering 350 homes for one year. Ms. Vargas and her

•

•
•

•

•

•

colleagues presented the district with a plaque in recognition of these
accomplishments.
Dr. Baker gave an update that the vast majority of students are in compliance with the
new immunization laws passed by the legislature. District staff continues to work
with families and the health department to determine next steps for those families
who are not in compliance.
With regard to SEBB (School Employees Benefits Board) state health care, the
payroll team has been working hard to help all employees enroll, which resulted in
100% of staff now being enrolled.
Staff has been working to create administrative policies and procedures regarding
sexual offenders on district property. Two of the policies are WSSDA model policies,
and the third policy is as a result of working with local law enforcement and legal
counsel. The Sheriff’s office will trespass the offenders from all schools and will
share with the offender that if they are a parent and would like to visit the school,
there is a process to request conditional permissions to be on district property. All
parties are trying to balance the rights of a person being at their child’s school but
also considering the safety of all students. There will be a news item on the district
website, with links to the policies, when they are finalized.
The recommendation has been received from the Attendance Areas PreK-12 Standing
Committee and was sent out to the community. Dr. Baker has received less than a
dozen responses to the messaging – two from individuals not pleased with the
recommendation and a few from people who think the committee did not go far
enough. The other responses received consisted of logistical questions. Dr. Baker
thanked Assistant Superintendent Steve Clarke and Executive Director Jay Jordan for
their work in co-chairing the committee. He anticipates letting the community know
that the recommendations will be adopted.
As the books close on the 2018-19 budget, there is more clarity on budget. We will be
moving to a 5% fund balance, and some mid-year updates include putting final
touches on a mental health specialist job description in preparation for hiring;
additional support for Cordata, Whatcom and the BRIDGES program; additional dean
support for Birchwood and Carl Cozier; acceleration of the Food Services program;
and Principal on Special Assignment Analisa Ficklin providing more support for the
Special Education leadership team.
The 2019-20 Priorities for Progress document has been finalized, which shares with
the community some of the actions that the district is taking.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the Oct. 16, 2019 Regular Meeting, Nov. 5, 2019 School
Board Visit and Nov. 6, 2019 Student Roundtable
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – October 2019
EL-7 Monitoring Report – Budget Planning and Execution
EL-9 Monitoring Report – Asset Maintenance and Protection
Resolution 18-19, Certifying the District’s Levy Collections for 2020 Calendar Year

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5

2

2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19

Resolution 19-19, Replacement Educational Support and Operations Levy and
Resolution 20-19 Replacement Technology Capital Projects Levy
Resolution 24-19, Cancellation of Stale-Dated Checks
Resolutions 25-19, 26-19 and 27-19, Authorize District Signatures
Resolution 28-19, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Approval of Purchase and Sale Agreement
Approval of Mediation Agreement
Mount Baker Theatre Educational Performance (#1920-069)
School Data Solutions Agreement (#1920-079)
Northwest Workforce Council Memorandum of Understanding (#1920-097)
Allied Arts of Whatcom County Agreement (#1920-103)
OSPI 215 Perkins iGrant Assurances (#1920-011)
Malcolm Oliver Agreement for Services
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.

Ms. Diaz Hackler read aloud the following statement regarding the February 2020 election:
A citizens committee for school levies has formed in support of Bellingham Public
Schools replacement operations and technology capital levies. District parents Brad
Swanson and Hannah Stone are co-chairing the committee. As per state law, the district is
requesting volunteers to serve on a committee against the measures. If you are interested,
please contact Communications and Community Relations at 360-676-6520.
3.0
3.1

3.2

3.3

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
EL-1 Monitoring – Expectations of Superintendent
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring response for EL1 (Attachment A). Ms. Diaz will provide a final version of this document which will be
submitted for approval at the Dec. 11, 2019 regular meeting.
EL-5 Monitoring – Communication and Counsel to the Board
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring response for EL5 (Attachment B). Ms. Diaz will provide a final version of this document which will be
submitted for approval at the Dec. 11, 2019 regular meeting.
EL-10 Monitoring – Race and Equity
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring response for EL10 (Attachment C). Ms. Diaz will provide a final version of this document which will be
submitted for approval at the Dec. 11, 2019 regular meeting. This policy will be added as
a topic for review at the next school board retreat.
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
B/SR-1 Board/Superintendent Connection
No changes.

3

4.2
4.3
4.4

5.0
5.1

B/SR-2 Delegation to the Superintendent
No changes.
B/SR-3 Superintendent Evaluation
No changes.
B/SR-4 Monitoring Response Document
No changes.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
A motion was made by Mr. Benjamin to allow the district to cover the costs of newly
elected school board member Katie Rose to attend the upcoming Washington State
School Directors Association (WSSDA) conference in Bellevue, WA. Ms. Bashaw
seconded the motion, and it unanimously passed.
• Ms. Mason was invited to speak to representative Sharon Shewmake’s class at WWU
regarding serving on the school board and policy governance. She also visited three
of her adopted schools. She attended Sunnyland for a reading event, where the
families were all very engaged. The principal of Wade King invited her to a Friday
morning assembly, where the topic was mindfulness. While at Wade King she visited
some classrooms and enjoyed seeing how students from the AIMS (Access in
Mainstream Setting) and Life Skills programs were woven into the school’s
classrooms and field trips. She also met with Sonia Bell, Sehome principal, and heard
about student-led equity work. The students recently participated in an activity where
they participated in homecoming events while walking in the shoes of students from
different backgrounds. This was eye-opening for staff and resulted in some changes
for future years. Ms. Mason thought it was great to see how the breakout spaces at
Sehome are being used.
• Mr. Benjamin attended the WSSDA Region 1 meeting at Granite Falls Middle
School, an impressive school with a focus on CTE. There was an introduction to
WSSDA OnBoard, a research-based professional learning system for school
directors. Russ Pfeiffer-Hoyt, Mount Baker school board member, reminded Mr.
Benjamin that Bellingham has been a leader in organizing school boards in Whatcom
County to plan for the February legislative conference. WSSDA has proposed a
change to their dues formula. He enjoyed the student roundtable at Kulshan.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler attended Maria Salazar’s lecture, where Ralph Munro was in
attendance, and Sunnyland’s Halloween event with her grandchildren. She enjoyed
the board’s Bellingham High School visit and the student roundtable and recently
attended a Parkview neighborhood meeting. She and Ms. Bashaw went to a meeting
with representative Debra Lekanoff, and she had lunch with Dr. Baker at Options
High School, which was great.
• Ms. Bashaw enjoyed talking with Debra Lekanoff and Ms. Diaz Hackler about needs
in Whatcom County.
• Ms. Peterson observed the justices of the State Supreme Court at WWU, where they
were hearing cases and engaging with the campus community. She shared that over
the last few months she has met with a population of youth who chose not to engage
and graduate, and they may be interested in a future linkage.

4

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business (as needed): n/a

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:29 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

5

