DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 5, 2019

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
June 5, 2019 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Present: Directors Douglas
Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler (President), Jenn Mason, Quenby Peterson,
Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder). She acknowledged that this
meeting is being held on the ancestral homelands of Indigenous Peoples, in particular the
Lummi Nation and the Nooksack tribe.
Audience:
• Lisa Peterson – Is the president of the Bellingham Education Association (BEA) and
was a classroom teacher for more than 30 years. She is speaking in support of
members of the Bellingham Association of School Employees (BASE). During her
longevity in the Bellingham Public Schools, she has had the opportunity and pleasure
of working with great BASE members. We could not open our school doors each day
without BASE and other employees who work alongside teaching staff. She is asking
the district to approve an increase in funding for these positions.
• Chris Smith – Is a paraeducator in the Life Skills program at Wade King. He
understands the district has been placed in a difficult position by the legislature’s
moves. The year is almost over, and BASE employees have been patient and deserve
a living wage.
• Emily Dreste – Is a paraeducator in the Life Skills program at Wade King, and this is
the first time she has ever addressed the board. She has been an educator since she
was 18 years old and has worked in the Bellingham Public Schools since 2016. Since
being divorced she has had a hard time finding housing that she can afford. The
culture is not equitable when paraeducators who are affluent or married can continue
in this field, but those who are not need to find other jobs. The inequity is putting a
strain on her physical and mental health.
• Alex McLean – Is a resident of the Happy Valley neighborhood. The investment the
district is making to keep the bus barn in its current location is not viable for habitat
restoration. He said the York neighborhood, Public Works Dept. and other entities
have been trying to get the bus barn moved for over 10 years. He provided
documentation that he would like included in the district’s permanent records
(Attachment A).

•

Dana Beatty – Is a longtime teacher and administrator who is here to support BASE
employees. She stated that she could not do either of those jobs without the support of
BASE employees. She knows a secretary who as a single parent qualified for food
stamps while she was a secretary at an elementary school. We will not be able to
maintain the level of education in the Bellingham Public Schools without these
talented people.

Ms. Peterson asked that the information left by Mr. McLean be included as an attachment
to the meeting minutes from this evening.
1.4

Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Graduation season is upon us, as is the end of the school year. This creates a lot of
emotions as well as excitement for students, families and staff.
• Dr. Baker asked Ron Cowan, Executive Director of Capital Projects and School
Facilities, to give an update on the Alderwood and Parkview projects. Ron noted that
both the Alderwood and Parkview design committees have spent the past year
working to come up with designs for the new schools. The design committees are
comprised of staff, parents and community members. He reviewed the plans for
Alderwood and Parkview that will be presented to Dr. Baker as a recommendation
shortly. Ron then answered questions from board members about the plans he had
presented.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to remove item 2.9, the Chuckanut Bay Athletic
Association Agreement, from the consent agenda. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Peterson, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.10
2.11

Approval of Minutes of the May 15, 2019 Special Meeting and May 22, 2019
Regular Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – May 2019
Approval of Donation, Sehome PTSA
Award of Bid, Dairy Products
Approve Sehome High School Construction Change Order
Resolution 9-19, Delegation of Authority to WIAA
Resolution 10-19, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Learning Assistance Program Readiness to Learn
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

Unanimous affirmative vote.

2

3.0
3.1

3.2

3.3

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-2, Organizational Continuity
There was discussion regarding some of the feedback contained in the monitoring
response document for EL-2. Ms. Mason made a motion to approve the monitoring
response document (Attachment B). Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – Ends 1, 2, 3 Combined
There was discussion regarding feedback contained in the monitoring response document
for Ends 1, 2 and 3 combined, as well as discussion regarding suggested changes to The
Bellingham Promise. Ms. Peterson made a motion to replace the word “develop” in the
Vision statement of Ends 1 with “nurture.” Unanimous affirmative vote. After further
discussion, there was a motion by Ms. Mason to change the wording of the Vision
statement in Ends 1 to “We will empower every child to discover and develop their
passions.” Unanimous affirmative vote. Mr. Benjamin suggests that staff ensure the
changes in The Bellingham Promise be reflected in the Ends policies. This will be done,
and an update will be given at the next meeting regarding whether changes need to be
made to the policies to reflect those changes. Ms. Peterson made a motion to approve the
monitoring response document (Attachment C). Unanimous affirmative vote.
Review of Monitoring Response Summary – EL-9
Ms. Diaz Hackler presented a summary of the combined responses for EL-9, Asset
Maintenance and Protection. (Attachment D). This summary will be added to the website.

4.0
4.1

Policy Governance Review
Review Possible Revisions to Ends 2.1 Policy
No changes are needed to Ends 2.1 at this time.

5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
• Mr. Benjamin attended the auditor’s exit meeting a few months ago, and his
recollection is that the auditors had to work hard to find much to talk about. They
seem to enjoy working with our finance staff, and they get quick answers to their
questions. He thanked staff for their help with the recent linkage meeting at
Bellingham High School. It was great to have students weigh in on the language. He
would like to talk at the retreat regarding regular student roundtables. The Wade King
visit was great, although he felt that there was no time for questions following the
presentations. He would be interesting in learning how we can we measure or look at
outcome of the social-emotional learning (SEL) curriculum.
• Ms. Mason thought the Wade King visit was great, and the International
Baccalaureate (IB) enhancements breakout was interesting. The recent linkage was
also great, and she loved hearing from the students and how open they were with their
feedback. She would like the opportunity to hear more student voice. The retirement
dinner was impressive thanks to the Communications and Community Relations
Department’s preparation. It is truly amazing to hear about the years of work, love
and care that are provided to our students.
• Ms. Peterson attended the Dollars for Scholars event. She also enjoyed the recent
linkage meeting. It appeared that because the students already knew each other they
felt safe sharing their perspectives. Three of the four students at her table had parents
3

•

who work in the district. Cross-grade relationships (buddies) came up at the linkage
as being highly valued. There was discussion regarding inclusion and how students
who are questioning their gender identity feel left out of sports. They would like
unified sports to be available for younger students. The Wade King visit was great,
full of excitement and enthusiasm. She attended the last Sehome PTSA meeting of the
year, which was also the last meeting for principal Michelle Kuss-Cybula, and the
Highly Capable Learning Parent Advisory Committee meeting, which was the last
meeting for Director of Teaching and Learning Director Dawn Christiana. Seniors
from Sehome are making trips back to their former elementary schools, helping to
teach the elementary students.
Ms. Diaz Hackler loved talking with the students seated at her table at the linkage
meeting. It was helpful to hear that our language contained in The Bellingham
Promise is different than the students’ language. Two students said they have gone
through their whole school career and had not had a teacher who reflected them. One
recently took an African American history class and thinks all students should take
the class. They like the diversity language, but it could be enhanced and improved
upon. Students thought that leadership opportunities should be available at a younger
age. She and her husband both enjoyed the retirement dinner. The Wade King visit
was well done. It will be interesting to see what changes will occur because of
advances in technology.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
School Board Committee Reports
No updates.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).

8.0
8.1

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Executive Session for the Purpose of Professional Negotiations
At 7:21 p.m., Ms. Diaz Hackler announced the board would enter Executive Session for
approximately 60 minutes for the purpose of professional negotiations (RCW 42.30.140).

9.0
9.1

RECONVENE TO OPEN SESSION
At 8:22 p.m., the board reconvened to open session.

10.0
10.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m.

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Board President

4

Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

5

