ATTACHMENT D
6/9/19 board meeting minutes
Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-8, District Calendar
Date Report submitted: 4/17/2019
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5/22/2019
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
The board appreciates the effort made to keep professional development opportunities in the face
of reduced professional development time. We commend the 56% decrease in certificated
absences. We believe that this year’s calendar was a good response to some community and staff
needs. The board values the use of home visits to not only engage families but help to meet their
basic needs. This is strong evidence of caring for the “whole child”. In particular, the MotherReads/Father-Reads and the Language Access Plan (Policy and Procedure 4218) programs stand
out.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
None.
4. Comments on the report itself.
The board sometimes wrestles with what information is helpful in a report. Overall, these reports
improve over time. The narrative of providing timely communication of the district calendar to all
stakeholders was interesting but could have been more concise.
1

ATTACHMENT D
6/9/19 board meeting minutes
Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-8, District Calendar
Date Report submitted: 4/17/2019
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5/22/2019

5. Possible changes to the policy.
None.

2

