ATTACHMENT B
6/9/19 board meeting minutes
Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Date Report submitted: 2/27/2019
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 3/13/2019
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
The board is impressed with the strategy of “pool” hiring because it looks to be an effective
approach to recruit the best staff. We support recruiting the best candidates from the most diverse
pool possible. We also agree with the increased number of employee trainings. The Bilingual
Educator Academy appears to be a great addition to our district’s CTE offerings. We think the
elective courses in our own schools promoting careers in education are creative and forward
thinking. Through this report and through our site visits, a clear demonstration has been made of
the clarity, intention and thoughtfulness in supporting professional development around social
emotional learning and technology integration. Last, but definitely not least, the board appreciates
the hard work put forth towards recruiting more volunteers. Volunteers play an important role in
helping lead our students toward success.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
Excellent progress around Affirmative Action goals and looking forward to continued progress.

1

ATTACHMENT B
6/9/19 board meeting minutes
Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Date Report submitted: 2/27/2019
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 3/13/2019
4. Comments on the report itself.
Well-organized report.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
2.c.iii. make continuous improvement towards hiring and retention of under-represented minority
teachers and support personnel in classrooms and supervisory/administrative positions, to better
reflect the ethnic makeup of our district’s students.

2

