ATTACHMENT A
6/9/19 board meeting minutes
Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution
Date Report submitted: 12/5/18
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 1/9/2019
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
The board appreciates the superintendent working closely with community partners to achieve the
outcomes of The Bellingham Promise. Leveraging community partnerships helps build support in
many ways. We have noted the evidence of clear community and stake-holder involvement with
budget planning and reporting, as specifically called out in the EL. We recognize the hard work
done to apply for various grants and to seek and obtain donations, especially the work done
towards improving our food service program. The ability to feed our children healthy meals and
snacks during their school years will benefit families far beyond our expectations.
The board is encouraged by the work underway to increase efficiencies and eliminate waste. We
especially appreciate the evidence of sound budget forecasting in a complex and ever-changing
State funding environment. One highlight that certainly cannot be missed is the State Auditor’s
Stewardship Award. It is a culmination of open and honest conversations about budget priorities
followed up with best practices for preparing and reporting on the resources entrusted to the
district. Insightful work to compare BPS policies to GFOA recommendations and identify key

1

ATTACHMENT A
6/9/19 board meeting minutes
Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution
Date Report submitted: 12/5/18
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 1/9/2019
learnings. The learnings show that the superintendent and his team continue to evolve and
improve the budgeting process.

3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
None.
4. Comments on the report itself.
The board appreciates the format which makes it easy to follow with links embedded in the
report. This makes a broad complex topic much more accessible – thank you. The board feels that
ample evidence has been provided that demonstrates the district’s long planning and intentional
processes.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
None.

2

