ATTACHMENT E
6/9/19 board meeting minutes
Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: Ends 2.1, Part 3 Student Competence
Date Report submitted: 4/17/19
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5/22/19
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
The board is pleased to note that CTE (Career Technical Education) and AP (Advanced
Placement) participation is well above the state average. We also note the increase in dual credit
courses from last year, in particular with our low-income students and students with IEPs
(Individualized Education Plans). We are also pleased that graduates with an IEP are enrolling in
higher education at a higher rate than the state average.
The increase in female participation in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and
Mathematics) courses is noted, as is the upward trend in low-income post-secondary enrollment.
We believe that a good point was made about our post-secondary enrollment remaining constant,
even with an increase in graduation. We are pleased to see new opportunities for students with the
new 4x8 schedule.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
The board needs to continue to understand the performance data of IEP students and make sure
these students are succeeding. We want all of our graduates, particularly those attending two-year
1

ATTACHMENT E
6/9/19 board meeting minutes
Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: Ends 2.1, Part 3 Student Competence
Date Report submitted: 4/17/19
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 5/22/19
college, prepared with no need for remedial coursework. The trend data for post-secondary
enrollment two years after graduation is disappointing.
4. Comments on the report itself.
The questions/answers format was interesting and easy-to-read. We appreciate Lynden being
added as a comparable district. The board appreciated the data presented on the senior exit
survey. The report was a great summary of a good deal of data. We would be remiss if we didn’t
acknowledge in writing what we said in the board meeting when the report was presented: we
truly appreciate the hard work that went into this report.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
None.

2

