1.
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 26, 2014
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
June 26, 2014 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw (Vice President), Ken Gass, Camille Hackler;
Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen. Ms. Bashaw stated that Dr.
Smith was absent due to an out-of-town commitment.
Audience
No audience presented.
Public Hearing on adoption of 2014-15 Bellingham School District budget
There were no comments during the public hearing on adoption of the budget.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report:
 Leadership Retreat: Dr. Baker said a productive end-of-year retreat was held
yesterday, June 25, at Wade King Elementary School. Agenda items included
reflections on the past year’s major events and accomplishments; the 2014-15 school
calendar; professional development plans; and best practices on a variety of topics.
 Update on International Baccalaureate (IB): Dr. Baker briefly discussed the district’s
plans for the IB program, noting that the current focus is on further development of
the program at the elementary school level. He then introduced Executive
Administrator Rob McElroy, who presented an overview of the program. A summary
of Mr. McElroy’s comments follows:
o Bellingham School District is leading Washington State in this area. Currently
our district has the only two schools (Wade King and Northern Heights
elementary schools) in the state authorized to deliver the IB Primary Years
Program. Additionally, Carl Cozier and Alderwood elementary schools are
candidate schools. (During the candidate phase, the school takes actions
necessary to fulfill the IB requirements for authorization.) A feasibility study
relating to the establishment of an IB program at Birchwood Elementary
School is also underway. Response to the program from staff has been
positive. While some teachers may express concerns about the program
initially, almost invariably, as they become immersed in it, they respond
favorably.
 Update on Technology and Bellingham Virtual Learning (BVL): Dr. Baker
introduced Executive Director of Technology Kurt Gazow, who shared a PowerPoint
presentation with the board. A summary of Mr. Gazow’s comments follows:

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 26, 2014
Page 2 of 5





o Next steps for the BVL program include collaborating with Director of
Teaching and Learning Michelle Kuss-Cybula and Options High School
Principal Byron Gerard to expand course offerings to Highly Capable
Learners and Options students. Additionally, plans call for increasing the
number of BVL courses that district teachers offer locally.
o Technology enhancements underway or in the planning stages include an
update of the district’s computer infrastructure, staff/teacher computer
upgrades, and wired and wireless network upgrades.
o A Teacher on Special Assignment (TOSA) has been hired who will focus on
professional development and training.
o Mr. Gazow is working with Tanya Rowe on a communications plan.
Update on Capital Projects. Dr. Baker introduced Capital Projects Manager Curtis
Lawyer who shared a presentation highlighting progress on the following projects:
o Lowell Elementary School: Architect’s renderings of the new addition were
part of the presentation. Mr. Lawyer said the June 11 Community Information
Meeting of the Lowell Design Advisory Group went very well and feedback
from attendees was generally positive. Educational specifications and
schematic design are complete.
o Happy Valley Educational Specifications/Design Advisory Committee: One
community meeting occurred in April and another is planned for next month.
The most recent general meeting was on June 6. The educational
specifications are complete and the architect is working to finalize the
schematic design.
o Birchwood Elementary School: Mr. Lawyer shared photos comparing the old
building to the new one. Painting of the exterior will begin next week. The
project is within budget and will be completed on time.
Update on Exclusionary Data: Dr. Baker introduced Director of Teaching and
Learning Steve Morse, and he noted that Mr. Morse has done a masterful job this year
in refining the district’s restorative justice practices and bringing all of the schools
into the conversation. Dr. Baker said in terms of metrics, this is critically important as
a way to measure the work of the district, as it has such a significant impact on the
lives of our students.
Mr. Morse shared a PowerPoint presentation on the district’s Exclusionary Data
statistics from 2010-2014. Included in his comments were the following points:
o Pushing kids away through suspensions does not help them. Each of our
schools has good stories relating to restorative justice, and it is exciting to see
our principals working to keep students in school.
o The number of K-12 district suspensions per day has declined from 22.87 in
2010-11 to 8.41 in 2013-14.
o Numbers of suspensions were particularly impressive at Cordata and Carl
Cozier elementary schools: Cordata: 0 and Carl Cozier: 2 students, one-half
day each.

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 26, 2014
Page 3 of 5

Ms. Bashaw expressed appreciation to both Steve Morse and Steve Clarke for their
advocacy work in this area on behalf of students.
2.

CONSENT ITEMS
Prior to adoption of the consent agenda, Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan distributed
handouts and answered questions relating to the 2014-15 budget.
Following discussion, Dr. Gass then made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to
approve the following consent agenda items. Motion carried unanimously.

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5

Approval of Minutes of June 12, 2014 Regular Meeting: Action on June 12, 2014
minutes as submitted.
Approve Intergovernmental Purchasing Agreement with ESD 112: Action on
agreement as submitted.
Resolution 14-14, Fixing and Adopting the 2014-15 Bellingham School District
Budget: Action on resolution as submitted.
Authorization to Call for Fueling Services Bids: Action on request as submitted.
Staff Travel: Action on staff travel as submitted:






2.6

District staff from Birchwood Elementary and Northern Heights Elementary to attend the
International Baccalaureate Primary Years Program (IB PYP) Workshop in Austin, Texas, July
19-26, 2014. Expenses will be paid from building funds, individual professional development
funds, PTA funds, IB allocation funds, and educational options budget.
District staff to attend the Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID) 2014 Summer
Institute training in San Diego, California, August 4-6, 2014. Expenses for travel will be paid by
district AVID funds, building budgets, and individual personal funds. This trip was approved at
the June 12, 2014 board meeting for a team to attend, but a staff member's name was
inadvertently left off the list.
The following request is after-the-fact and was given earlier approval by Dr. Baker: District staff
to attend the 19th Annual Getting to Know Connected Mathematics Project (CMP) Workshop in
Lansing, Michigan, June 23-27, 2014. Expenses will be covered by curriculum department
funds.

Student Trips: Action on student trips as submitted:








Bellingham High School dance team to attend the Elite Dance Camp June 30-July 3, 2014 in
Bellevue, Washington. Expenses for the trip will be paid from fundraising and scholarships.
Squalicum High School basketball team to play a doubleheader in Barrow, Alaska, December
11-14, 2014. Expenses for the trip will be paid from student/family contributions and
scholarships. Lodging and meals will be covered by Barrow High School.
Squalicum High School girls basketball team to attend basketball camp at Gonzaga University in
Spokane, Washington July 5-9.2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions
and scholarships.
Squalicum High School football team to attend football camp at Evergreen State College in
Olympia, Washington July 7-10.2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions
and scholarships.
Squalicum High School students to attend cheer camp at Great Wolf Lodge in Olympia,
Washington July 7-10.2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions and
scholarships.
Wade King Elementary students to attend Mountain School September 29-October 1,
2014. Funding is covered by the district.
Squalicum High School band and orchestra students to travel to Japan April 3 - April 10,
2015. This is a request in concept to allow for students to start fundraising.

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 26, 2014
Page 4 of 5




2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12

Highly Capable Program i-Grant 217: Action on i-Grant 217 as submitted.
Authorization to Call for Bids - Squalicum High School Skyroof Replacement:
Action on authorization to call for bids as submitted.
Approval of Surplus Textbooks and Kits: Action on request as submitted.
WIAA Cooperative/Combined Approval Form: Action on form as submitted.
Personnel Recommendations: Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts (4): Action on contracts as submitted:






2.13

2.14

3.
3.1

3.2

The following requests are after-the-fact and were given earlier approval by Dr. Baker:
Squalicum High School boys basketball team to attend basketball camp in Longview,
Washington June 20-21, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions and
scholarships; and
Squalicum High School boys wrestling team to attend wrestling camp at Boise State University
in Boise, Idaho June 23-27, 2014. Expenses will be paid from student/family contributions and
scholarships.

Coble, Amberjoy – To serve as a sign language interpreter for Mr. Craig Nicholes, Sehome
High School teacher, for the 2014-15.
Coble, Amberjoy – To serve as a sign language interpreter for the public at open houses,
parent conferences, special programs with public attendance (i.e. concerts, plays, D.A.R.E.,
graduation, etc.) to comply with Americans with Disabilities Act, as authorized by the principal
or program administrator, for the 2014-15 school year.
Holladay, Pam – Provided tutoring services for private school students on Individual Service
Plans (ISPs) in the Bellingham School District boundaries (2013-14 school year).
Roth, Debbie – Serve as Sign language interpreter on an as-needed basis for open houses,
parent conferences, public attending special programs, etc. (2014-15 school year).

EL-1 Monitoring Report: Expectations of Superintendent: Action on monitoring
report as submitted. Board Response to the EL-1 Monitoring Report will occur at the July
17, 2014 regular meeting.
EL-5 Monitoring Report: Communication and Counsel to the Board: Action on
monitoring report as submitted. Board Response to the EL-5 Monitoring Report will
occur at the July 17, 2014 regular meeting.
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation & Evaluation
Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, that section
2.b of the EL-4 policy be revised per the following excerpt. Unanimous affirmative vote.
o 2.b Provide appropriate training and development activities for all employee
classifications that will lead to increases in efficiency and effectiveness associated
with new employee induction and/or required by law.
Ends 1, Strategic Mission and Vision
Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler,
confirming that no revisions were needed to this policy. Vote was unanimous.

4.
4.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports - none

5.

NEW BUSINESS - none

6.

CLOSING ITEMS

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 26, 2014
Page 5 of 5

6.1

Board Assessment of Meeting
Dr. Gass assessed the meeting, with an overall rating of 5 (commendable).

6.2

Executive Session
At 7:26 p.m. the Board entered Executive Session to review the performance of a public
employee. At 8:30 p.m., the board resumed its regular meeting.
Adjournment
Ms. Bashaw adjourned the meeting at 8:31 p.m.

6.3

