Superintendent
Greg Baker

Board of Directors

Kelly M. Bashaw
Douglas W. Benjamin
Kenneth B. Gass
Camille Diaz Hackler
Steven H. Smith

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
AND STUDY SESSION OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 13, 2014

1.
1.1
1.2

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
November 13, 2014 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
Dr. Smith called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. He said the evening would begin with
the Prenatal to Age 3 Study Session and be followed by the regular board agenda items.
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Doug Benjamin, Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, Steve
Smith (President), Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Lindsay Ahrens.

1.3
2.
2.1

Other Attendees: Anda Adams, Harvard Doctoral Resident; Kristi Dominguez, Director,
Teaching and Learning – Early Childhood Education; Debora Haney, Birth-3
Coordinator; David Webster, Early Learning & Family Services Director, Opportunity
Council; Judy Ziels, Whatcom County Health Department; Jessica Sankey, Whatcom
Early Learning Alliance; Jana Burk, Lead Family Resources Coordinator, Opportunity
Council
Audience
No audience presented
STUDY SESSION
Discussion of services – Birth to Age 3
At 6:17 pm, Dr. Smith convened the study session. Dr. Baker introduced Kristi
Dominguez and other community partners. He said that the team put together the session
based on board input. Because Anda Adams has a strong early childhood background,
she is partnering in this work as a part of her residency.
Kristi Dominguez said this work encompasses Ends 1 (E-1) of The Bellingham Promise.
Anda Adams said that when people consider this demographic, early education strategy is
the primary consideration, but Prenatal to 3 is about partnerships encompassing the whole
Bellingham Promise.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Nov. 13, 2014
Page 2 of 6

Kristi and Anda stated the goal of the presentation is to identify what is working well and
where there are opportunities for action. They provided an opportunity for board
members to relay ideas about what they want to learn at the outset of the presentation to
be sure everything was addressed.
Judy Ziels from the Whatcom County Health Department spoke about strengthening
families for optimal child development and ensuring there are opportunities for all
families by addressing disparities in access. There are universal targets but also items for
specialized populations.
Jessica Sankey from Whatcom Early Learning Alliance discussed the need to have
coordinated services and a shared vision across service providers.
David Webster, Early Learning & Family Services Director at the Opportunity Council
discussed the child care marketplace and said a positive takeaway is that there are many
long-term quality programs in our county doing great work.
Debbie Haney, Bellingham School District’s Birth-3 Coordinator and Jana Burk, Lead
Family Resources Coordinator at the Opportunity Council discussed early intervention
services available to families.
At the conclusion of the study session at 7:31 p.m., Dr. Gass left the meeting and the
group paused for a brief recess.
At 7:39 p.m., the group reconvened to consider the remainder of the agenda items.
3.

SUPERINTENDENT’S ANNOUNCEMENTS AND REPORT

3.1

Superintendent’s Announcements & Report
Priorities for Progress: Dr. Baker noted this publication has been updated and is available
online and in print.
Safety and security updates: Dr. Baker reviewed the latest steps in the district’s safety
and security plan. District administrators have been meeting with Bellingham’s police
chief and other police personnel. The district has received a grant from the state and is
conducting an audit of the facilities to determine how to use those resources. Ongoing
topics of discussion with the Bellingham Police Department include possibilities such as
hiring more district resource officers or raising the level of campus monitors to unarmed
security officer. At this point, Dr. Baker drew attention to a card that was prepared for the
Marysville School District; it has been signed by the leadership team and will be ready to
send once it is also signed by the board members.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Nov. 13, 2014
Page 3 of 6

Ms. Hackler asked if the district will publicize safety and security decisions. Dr. Baker
confirmed that for the most part, decisions will be publicized except in cases where the
police advise keeping certain details private to maintain optimal security.
Mr. Benjamin asked if the district is updating the bus monitoring system. Dr. Baker
responded yes.
World Language Advisory Committee: A World Language committee is forming. One
challenge coming to the forefront is the acquisition of resources for more world language
study. Recently, a Bellingham School District student indicated that his eight-week
immersion in another country increased his bilingualism and benefited his second
language acquisition.
Facilities: Advisory committees for the Parkview Elementary School and Options High
School projects will be forming soon, followed by formation of committees for the
Sehome High School and the athletics fields projects.
WSSDA board of distinction: Washington State School Directors Association has named
the Bellingham Public Schools Board of Directors as one of seventeen Boards of
Distinction across the state this year. Dr. Smith noted that the board is simply reflecting
the great work of district staff and administrators.
4.

4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
4.9
4.10
4.11

CONSENT ITEMS
Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to approve the following consent
agenda. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes of the Oct. 2, 2014 regular meeting and the Oct. 23, 2014
community linkage meeting – Action on minutes as submitted
Approval of Investments, October 2014 – Action on Investments as submitted
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, October 2014 – Action on Expenditures and
Payrolls as submitted
Resolution 21-14, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund – Action on resolution as submitted.
College Spark Math Initiative Grant – Action on agreement as submitted.
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) - Prevention Redesign Initiative – Action on
MOU as submitted.
North Cascades Institute Program Contracts – Action on contracts as submitted.
Everett Community College for College in the High School Interagency Agreement
– Action on agreement as submitted.
Bellingham Technical College Interlocal Agreement – Action on agreement as
submitted.
Washington Interscholastic Activities Association Cooperative Program – Action on
agreement as submitted.
Home Port Learning Center Agreement – Action on agreement as submitted.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Nov. 13, 2014
Page 4 of 6

4.12
4.13

Monitoring Report EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection – Review of monitoring
report as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts (8) – Action on contracts as submitted:
Department

4.14
4.15

Contract Holder

Teaching & Learning

Brand, Anne

Teaching & Learning

Cotton, Susan

Teaching & Learning

Dougherty, Deborah

Teaching & Learning

Earle, Lorraine

Teaching & Learning

Kelly, Mark

Teaching & Learning

Mueller, Elise

Teaching & Learning

Shaw, Tracy

Teaching & Learning

Yoos, Jamie

Personnel Recommendations – Action on report as submitted.
Staff Travel – Action on out-of-state staff travel as submitted:
● Squalicum High School staff to attend the White House Convening in San Diego, California, November
17-18, 2014. Travel expenses will be paid for by using individual staff development funds, Bellingham
Administrator Organization funds and building professional development funds.
● Kulshan Middle School staff to attend the National Council for the Social Studies (NCSS) national
conference in Boston, Massachusetts, November 21-23, 2014. Funding for travel will be paid from
individual staff development funds, building professional development funds, and personal funds.
● Kulshan Middle School staff to attend the National Conference of the American Speech Language and
Hearing Association in Orlando, Florida, November 20-22, 2014. Travel expenses will be paid for by
using individual staff development funds and personal funds.
● Sehome High School staff to attend the National Science Teachers Association Conference in Long
Beach, California, December 3-6, 2014. Funding for travel will be paid from individual staff
development funds and career and technical education funds.

4.16

Student Trips – Action on student trips as submitted:
● Squalicum High School selected band students to attend a music festival in Boston, Massachusetts, April
6-10, 2015. Expenses will be covered through fundraising, donations, grants, and family funds.
The following request is after-the-fact and was given earlier approval by Dr. Baker:
● Squalicum High School, Bellingham High School, Sehome High School, Shuksan Middle School, and
Kulshan Middle School Prevention Teams to attend the Youth Matter Leadership Retreat at Camp
Lutherwood, October 24-26, 2014 in Bellingham, Washington. Expenses for this trip will be covered
through the Whatcom Prevention Coalition and Whatcom County Health Department. This trip was
approved for Fairhaven Middle School students at the October 2, 2014 Board Meeting.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Nov. 13, 2014
Page 5 of 6

5.
5.1

5.2

6.
6.1

6.2

6.3

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
Dr. Smith clarified that the comments written by board members become a part of Dr.
Baker’s annual evaluation. The board members discussed the comments, conclusions,
and suggested revisions on the Summary Worksheet for EL-1. Mr. Benjamin then made a
motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to prepare a final Monitoring Response Document
(Attachment 1) based on this discussion. Motion carried unanimously.
EL-5, Communication and Counsel to the Board
The board members discussed the comments, conclusions, and suggested revisions on the
Summary Worksheet for EL-5. Mr. Benjamin then made a motion, seconded by Ms.
Bashaw, to prepare a final Monitoring Response Document for EL-5 (Attachment 2)
based on this discussion. Motion carried unanimously.
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Board/Superintendent Relationship Policy Review
Board members reviewed Dr. Smith’s recommended revisions to B/SR 5.1 – Annual
Summative Evaluation of the Superintendent. Following discussion, which included
some additional proposed revisions, Ms. Bashaw made a motion to accept a revised
document (Attachment 3). Ms. Hackler seconded the motion. The motion carried
unanimously.
Governance Process: GP-7, Agenda Planning and GP-7.1, Annual Board Agenda
2014-15
Following discussion, Ms. Bashaw made a motion to accept the proposed revisions to
GP-7, seconded by Ms. Hackler. The motion carried unanimously. (See Attachment 4)
Consideration of GP-7.1., Annual Board Agenda, will occur at the Dec. 11, 2014 board
meeting.
Linkage Take-Away and Policy Governance Review
Following a brief discussion that included proposed revisions to EL-3, Dr. Smith
recommended that discussion of this item be tabled. It will be added to a future agenda, to
allow Dr. Gass to provide input.

7.
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4
7.5:

SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS
County & City Liaisons: Kelly Bashaw and Camille Hackler - none
Superintendent Review: Steve Smith and Ken Gass - none
Board Manual: Ken Gass and Steve Smith - none
Policy Governance Enhancements: Steve Smith and Kelly Bashaw - none
Board Transparency/Community Connections: Kelly Bashaw - none

8.
8.1

NEW BUSINESS
Grievance Process/Disciplinary Appeal Council
Dr. Baker asked the board members their preference on the board’s role in the grievance
process and on the Disciplinary Appeal Council. He noted that the board is not legally
required to be involved in the Council process. Following discussion, all of the board
members agreed that it is not necessary for the Council to have board representation. Dr.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Nov. 13, 2014
Page 6 of 6

Baker will keep the board apprised as members are appointed to the Council.
Additionally, revisions to policy 3200 will be considered at a future board meeting.
9.
9.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting – Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting with an overall rating
of 4 (good).

9.10

Adjournment
Dr. Smith adjourned the meeting at 8:40 p.m.
_____________________
Steven Smith
School Board President

Attest:

_________________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes Approved: _________________

