DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
September 11, 2014
1.
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
September 11, 2014 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Wash.
Call to Order/Roll Call
Dr. Smith called the meeting to order at 6:07 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Doug
Benjamin, Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and
recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience
No audience presented
Superintendent’s Announcements and Reports
 Start of School: Dr. Baker reported that the school opening process was one of the
smoothest ever. For kindergarteners, several steps were taken to ensure opening
week activities went well. These included:
o A strong focus on reducing kindergarten class size district-wide. (Targets:
an average class size of 20 at Title I schools and 22 at non-Title schools.)
o Thirty-two hours of paraeducator time was made available to every
kindergarten classroom for the start of school.
o Promise K had an extremely positive impact. Sixty students entered
kindergarten this year with 10 weeks of formal classroom experience.
o Some district office staff members worked as needed at all 14 elementary
schools during the first two weeks of school to help during the
lunch/dismissal transition period with our youngest students.
 Enrollment: Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan said actual enrollment
districtwide was lower (-72) than projections. He said this will have no significant
impact on the budget for the current fiscal year.
 Class Size: Dr. Baker said Executive Team members met daily during opening
week to review class size numbers districtwide and to determine which
classrooms needed additional support. He said in many instances, when class size
seems particularly high, there is generally a background story as to why class size
is high and what creative efforts are underway to mitigate the impact.
 Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) letters: As part of the requirements of the No
Child Left Behind Act, letters were sent to families whose children attend five
schools designated as “in improvement” to advise them of their right to choose
another school. Of approximately 1,600 eligible students, only six have opted to
transfer. Dr. Baker expressed appreciation to Deputy Superintendent Mike

Draft Meeting Minutes
September 11, 2014
Page 2 of 4



Copland, Assistant Superintendent Steve Clarke, and Executive Director Tanya
Rowe for the many hours they have devoted to this effort.
Happy Valley Elementary School: Mr. Cowan updated the board on the work of
the Happy Valley Educational Specifications Design Advisory Committee. He
shared guiding principles that the district uses in planning all school projects.
These have been shared previously with neighborhood residents during committee
meetings. They include:
o Build highly functional, safe, healthy efficient buildings that provide
strong support to the district’s primary mission of teaching and learning.
o Devote as much of the project budget as possible to spaces that support
this primary mission of teaching and learning.
o The separation of bus and school auto traffic to some degree is a must.
The district has several schools where autos use a separate street from
buses to access the school site.
o Use existing public infrastructure as much as possible and build as little
new infrastructure as possible in order to devote as much of the project
budget as possible to spaces that support the primary mission of teaching
and learning.
o Develop property following all of the required rules and regulations.
o Be a good neighbor to the best of our ability in light of competing
interests.
Mr. Cowan then shared with the board the current preferred site plan and two
alternative site plans. He discussed pros and cons of each plan, along with
budgetary considerations. Further discussions will take place at a Project
Update/Site Plan Community Feedback Meeting scheduled for Sept. 16.

2. 0

CONSENT ITEMS
Dr. Smith requested that consent agenda item 2.8 be voted on separately, as his spouse is
an independent contractor at the company recommended for hire. Dr. Gass made a
motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to vote on item 2.8 separately. Affirmative votes: Ms.
Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Dr. Gass, Ms. Hackler. Abstention: Dr. Smith.

2.8

Hire appraiser for Halleck Street Easement: Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by
Ms. Hackler, to approve the recommendation as submitted. Affirmative votes: Ms.
Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Dr. Gass, Ms. Hackler. Abstention: Dr. Smith.
Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the remainder of the
consent agenda items as follows. Unanimous affirmative vote.

2.1
2.2
2.3

Approval of Minutes of August 21, 2014: Action on minutes as submitted.
Approval of Investments - August 2014: Action on investments (Attachment A) as
submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll - August 2014: Action on expenditures and
payroll (Attachment B) as submitted.

Draft Meeting Minutes
September 11, 2014
Page 3 of 4
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19

Washington State Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss Agreement:
Action on agreement as submitted.
School Accreditation Services Contract: Action on contract as submitted.
Minimum Basic Education Requirement Compliance 2014-15: Report reviewed as
submitted.
Resolution 18-14 Replacement Through New Construction in Lieu of
Modernization: Action on Resolution as submitted.
Opportunity Council-Early Learning and Family Services Inter-Agency Agreement:
Action on agreement as submitted.
Opportunity Council Early Support for Infants and Toddlers: Action on contract as
submitted.
Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services: Action on agreement
as submitted.
Business Associate Agreement - Alliance Nursing: Action on agreement as submitted.
Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services Agreement: Action on agreement as
submitted.
Running Start Program Agreement: Action on agreement as submitted.
2014-15 Agreement - The Language Exchange: Action on agreement as submitted
Graduation Alliance Agreement: Action on agreement as submitted.
Personnel Recommendations: Action on recommendations as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts: Action on contracts as submitted.
Staff Travel: Action on staff travel as submitted:



2.20

Student Trips: Action on student trips as submitted:



3.
3.1

Options High School teachers to attend the Project Based Learning Teacher Institute in San
Diego, California, September 31-October 3, 2014. Travel expenses will be paid with LAP
funding.
Highly Capable Program (HCP) staff to attend the National Association for Gifted Children's
annual Convention in Baltimore, Maryland November 13-16, 2014. Funding for expenses will be
paid from the HCP budget.
Sehome High School Baseball Team to participate in the Amphitheatre High School Spring
Invitational Baseball Classic in Phoenix, Arizona March 18-22, 2015. Expenses for travel will be
paid by team fundraising.
Sehome High School Cross Country Team to participate in the Erik Anderson Invitational in
Spokane, Washington September 18-21, 2014. Expenses for travel will be paid by team
fundraising and family funds

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Proposed Updates - EL-1 and EL-5
Dr. Smith discussed revisions he is recommending for EL-1 (Expectations of
Superintendent) and EL-5 (Communication and Counsel to the Board.) He said the
purpose of the revisions is to eliminate some redundancies in the policies and to make the
language and formatting of EL-5 consistent with other Executive Limitations policies.
Following review of the proposed changes to EL-5, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded
by Ms. Hackler, to approve the revisions to EL-5. Unanimous affirmative vote. Following
review of the proposed changes to EL-1, Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Dr.
Gass, to approve the revisions to EL-1. Unanimous affirmative vote.

Draft Meeting Minutes
September 11, 2014
Page 4 of 4
4.
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5

SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS
County & City Council Liaisons: Kelly Bashaw and Camille Hackler: A meeting will
be scheduled with City Council Liaison Roxanne Murphy.
Superintendent Review: Steve Smith and Ken Gass: no updates
Board Manual: Ken Gass and Steve Smith: This will be an agenda item at the Board
Retreat.
Policy Governance Enhancements: Steve Smith and Kelly Bashaw: no updates
Board Transparency/Community Connections: Kelly Bashaw: no updates

5.
5.1

NEW BUSINESS
Washington State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) Boards of Distinction
Application: Dr. Smith and Tanya Rowe met today regarding the application. It will be
submitted to WSSDA by the Sept. 17 deadline.
Operating Policies: Dr. Smith said he and Ms. Bashaw will review the Series 1000
Board of Directors Operating Policies, update as needed, and bring to the board at a
future meeting for review and discussion.
School Board Listening Post: Dr. Smith said he will respond on behalf of the board to
all postings via email. Mr. Benjamin asked that the responses include an assurance that
all five board members have read the posting.
Inside Schools Newsletter: Future newsletters will include references to the School
Board’s work and relevant items of interest.
Whatcom Health Magazine: Bellingham Herald staff will interview Mr. Benjamin for
an upcoming article in this publication.
WSSDA Director Area 1 Fall Regional Meeting: This meeting is on Oct. 29 at Weston
High School in Arlington. Board members should let Ruth Rasmussen know if they plan
to attend.
Outlook Calendars: Board members will transition soon to Outlook Calendars now that
new email addresses have been assigned.
Volunteer Disclosure Form: To comply with state law, each board member will
complete the district’s Disclosure Form for Prospective Volunteers, which includes a
provision granting the district permission to conduct a Washington State Patrol
background check in compliance with RCW 43.43.830.
Start time for Regular Board Meetings: Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a
motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to change the regular board meeting start time from
6 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Retreat: Scheduled for 8:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. on Saturday, Sept. 13 at Birchwood
Elementary School. Dr. Smith distributed the draft agenda.

6.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Dr. Gass assessed the meeting, with an overall rating of
5 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:59 p.m.

6.2

