DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 17, 2014
1.
1.1
1.2

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
July 17, 2014 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Wash.
Call to Order/Roll Call
Dr. Smith called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. Present: Directors Ken Gass, Camille
Hackler, Steve Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen. Dr.
Smith stated that Ms. Bashaw had an out-of-town commitment but would participate in a
portion of the meeting via conference call.
Dr. Smith said an Executive Session was held just prior to this regular meeting. The
purpose of the Executive Session was to evaluate the qualifications of candidates who
submitted applications for the vacant School Board Position No. 5. He said during the
Executive Session, the board discussed qualifications of the candidates, but not their
preferences for finalists.

1.3
1.4

2.
2.1

Dr. Gass then made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to revise the agenda so that Item
5 (New Business) would be considered immediately after Item 1.5 (Superintendent’s
Announcements and Reports.) Motion carried unanimously.
Audience
No audience presented.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report:
 Update on Happy Valley Educational Specifications/Design Advisory Committee:
Dr. Baker said a community meeting is scheduled for July 21 at 6 p.m. at the school.
 Introduction of Harvard Doctoral Resident: Dr. Baker introduced Anda Adams, who
will be participating in a 10-month residency within the Department of Teaching and
Learning as part of the Harvard Graduate School of Education Doctor in Education
Leadership Program (Ed.L.D. Program).
NEW BUSINESS
Selection of Finalists for Vacant Board Position
Dr. Smith expressed appreciation on behalf of the board to each of the individuals
who submitted applications for the position. He said both the district and the community
are fortunate to have so many capable individuals who are interested and willing to serve.
Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to limit the
selection of finalists to four candidates. Vote was unanimous.

Draft Meeting Minutes
July 17, 2014
Page 2 of 4

2.2

Dr. Gass then made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to select the following
applicants as finalists for School Board Position No. 5: Douglas Benjamin, Amy Cloud,
Mark Peterson, and Jessica Sankey. Vote was unanimous.
Preparation for July 28 Interviews
Dr. Smith said the four finalists who were just selected would be invited for interviews
that would occur during a special board meeting on July 28, 2014. The meeting will be
open to the public.
General discussion followed regarding the order in which board members would present
interview questions to the candidates during the July 28 meeting.

At 6:16 p.m. Ms. Bashaw withdrew from the meeting by ending her conference call.
3.

3.1

3.2
3.3
3.4

CONSENT ITEMS
Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to approve the following consent
agenda items. Vote was unanimous.
Approval of Minutes: June 23, 2014, Special Meeting; June 26, 2014, Special
Meeting; and June 26, 2014, Regular Meeting: Action on three sets of minutes as
submitted.
Approval of Investments: Action on investments as submitted. (See Attachment A.)
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll - June 2014: Action on expenditures and
payroll for June 2014 as submitted. (See Attachment B.)
Staff Travel: Action on staff travel as submitted:







3.5

Student Travel: Action on student travel as submitted:


3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9

District staff to attend the Irene C. Fountas and Gay Su Pinnell Two Consecutive Multi-Day Institutes in Atlanta,
Georgia, July 28-31, 2014. Funding for this travel will be from Learning Assistance Program (LAP) funds.
District staff to attend the Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID) 2014 Summer Institute training in
San Diego, California, August 4-6, 2014. Expenses for travel will be paid by district AVID funds, building
budgets, and individual personal funds. This trip was approved at the June 12, 2014, board meeting for a team to
attend, but a staff member was just added to the team and a member's name was inadvertently left off the list.
District staff to attend the International Baccalaureate Primary Years Program (IB PYP) Workshop in Austin,
Texas, July 22-26, 2014. Expenses will be paid from building funds, individual professional development funds,
PTA funds, IB allocation funds, and educational options budget. This trip was approved at the June 26, 2014,
board meeting for a team to attend, but a staff member was just added to the team.
Options High School staff to attend the High Tech High Conference in San Diego, California, June 22-25,
2014. Expenses for travel will be paid from administrative and individual professional development funds. (This
is an after-the-fact request previously approved by Dr. Baker.)
Bellingham High School Football Team to travel to Wenatchee, Washington, July 20-24, 2014, for the Wenatchee
Football Camp. The team will be accompanied by the head football coach and will travel in district vehicles.
Funding is provided by Football Booster fundraiser or through scholarships.

Teaching Channel Agreement: Action on agreement as submitted.
Resolution 15-14, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund: Action on Resolution 15-14 as submitted.
Personnel Recommendations: Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts (2): Action on personal services contracts as submitted:


Christiana, Dawn – Guided Language Acquisition Design (GLAD) Preparation, Facilitation and Support from
August 1 – 21, 2014.

Draft Meeting Minutes
July 17, 2014
Page 3 of 4


4.
4.1

4.2

Pollino, Linda – Elementary and Middle School Science Refurbishment Program Effective: August 31, 2014 –
August 31, 2015

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring, Monitoring Report EL-1, Expectations of
Superintendent
Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to accept
the monitoring report and confirm that:
 The Superintendent has reasonably interpreted the provisions of EL-1; and
 There is sufficient evidence to determine whether the District is in compliance or not;
and
 The District is making reasonable progress towards compliance with the policy’s
executive limitations, but a greater degree of progress is expected in some areas.
Motion carried unanimously. It was further agreed to include the following
comment in the EL-1 summary sheet:
 As noted in the monitoring report (Item d.a; d.b; and d.c), the district is working
toward compliance in areas relating to policies and procedures.
Board Response to Monitoring, Monitoring Report EL-5, Communication and
Counsel to the Board
Dr. Smith suggested that the board consider ways to consolidate EL-1 and EL-5 to
eliminate some redundancies. This will be a future agenda item.
Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to accept the
monitoring report and confirm that:
 The Superintendent has reasonably interpreted the provisions of EL-5; and
 There is sufficient evidence to determine whether the District is in compliance or not;
and
 The District is in compliance with the policy’s executive limitations.
Motion carried unanimously. It was further agreed to include the following
comments in the EL-5 summary sheet:
 The Superintendent and the excellent Department of Communications and
Community Relations keep the Board and our public well-informed and provide
ample opportunity for public input on a wide variety of issues and initiatives
involving the District.
 The study sessions have been most useful in understanding the complexities of the
Bellingham School District.

5.
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Committee Reports
 Board Manual: Dr. Smith said this will be an agenda item at the Board retreat on
Sept. 13, 2014.
 Washington State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) Boards of Distinction:
Applications are Due Sept. 17.

Draft Meeting Minutes
July 17, 2014
Page 4 of 4

Other
 Dr. Smith reported that he has completed the Open Government/Records Training as
required by Senate Bill 5964.
6.
6.1
6.2

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting:
Ms. Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall rating of 4 (good.)
Adjournment
Dr. Smith adjourned the meeting at 6:32 p.m.

______________________
Steven Smith
School Board President
Attest:
____________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes Approved: ___________

