DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 2, 2014
1.
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
October 2, 2014 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Wash.
Call to Order/Roll Call
Dr. Smith called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present: Directors Doug Benjamin,
Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth
Rasmussen. Dr. Smith said Ms. Bashaw was not in attendance due to an out-of-town
commitment.
Audience
No audience presented
Superintendent’s Announcements and Reports
 Bellingham Public Schools Foundation: Dr. Baker introduced audience member Kim
Lund, who in late summer assumed the position of Executive Director of the
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation.
 21st Century Grant: The Washington State Office of Superintendent of Public
Instruction (OSPI) has awarded Shuksan Middle School a $1.3 million grant to
develop a 21st Century Community Learning Center over the next five years. The
grant application process was highly competitive and focused on high needs areas
around the country. Dr. Baker expressed appreciation to Shuksan Middle School
Principal Jay Jordan and grant writer Gretchen Pflueger for their roles in securing this
grant.
 Shuksan Middle School dinner program: Free, hot dinners are served at Shuksan
Middle School four nights a week. The program has been expanded this year and has
been very well received by the community, with approximately 80 to 100 meals being
served nightly.
 School Board Study Sessions: Dr. Baker requested feedback from the board on two
upcoming study sessions:
o Birth to Age 3 - (Oct. 2, 2014) – highlights of discussion:
 How is the district partnering with community players? Can we form
stronger community ties? Clarify what services are currently available
in such areas as infant stimulation and family and mental health.
Consider asking some of our community partners to participate in the
study session.
 What are best practices? Are services parceled out among community
partners and the district? What types of intervention work are in place,
and what is feasible?

Draft Meeting Minutes
Oct. 2, 2014
Page 2 of 4




2.

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11

Ms. Bashaw referenced the recent Early Learning Leadership Brunch,
which included discussion on the 2014 State of Children and Families
Report and a keynote speech by Nonie K. Lesaux, PhD.
o Special Education (Dec. 11, 2014) – Board members and Special Education
Director Mike Haberman discussed a variety of topics that might be points of
focus for this meeting. It was agreed that Mr. Haberman would provide an
overview of special education programs and then do an in-depth presentation
on one or two specific topics.
Initiative 1351 – Washington Class Size Reduction Measure: Dr. Baker briefly
reviewed the provisions of this initiative, which will be on the Nov. 4 ballot.

CONSENT ITEMS
Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to approve the consent items as
follows. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of Minutes of Sept. 11, 2014 regular meeting and Sept. 13, 2014 Board
Retreat meeting: Action on minutes as submitted.
Approval of Investments: Sept. 2014: Action on investments as submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll: Sept. 2014: Action on expenditures and
payroll as submitted.
Resolution 19-14 Survey of Space Availability: Action on Resolution as submitted.
Resolution 20-14 Acceptance of State Study and Survey: Action on Resolution as
submitted.
Approval of Educational Specifications for Happy Valley Elementary School
Reconstruction: Educational specifications approved as submitted.
Authorization to Call for Bids - Lowell Gym/Cafeteria Project: Authorization to call
for bids as submitted.
OSPI Perkins Application Plan: Plan approved as submitted.
Personnel Recommendations: Personnel recommendations approved as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts: Personal services contracts approved as submitted:
Staff Travel: Staff travel approved as submitted:






Department of Teaching and Learning staff to attend the National Dyslexia Conference in San Diego,
California from November 12-15, 2014. Expenses will be paid for by Title I funds.
Family Partnership Program staff to attend National Network of Partnership Schools Leadership
Development Conference in Baltimore, Maryland, October 22-25, 2014. Expenses for this conference
will be paid from the Family Partnership budget.
Administrative staff to represent the Bellingham School District on a trip to China sponsored by the
Hanban/Confusis Institute and Chinese Language and Cultural Initiatives Office at the College
Board. Travel will be November 4-13, 2014. Travel-related expenses in China (food, travel,
accommodations, and programs) will be paid by the Chinese Language and Cultural Initiatives Office's
Bridge Delegation Program. Other expenses will be covered by the administrator's professional
development account.
Highly Capable Program staff to attend the National Association for Gifted Children's Annual
Convention in Baltimore, Maryland, November 13-16, 2014. This travel was approved for a team at
the September School Board Meeting. Since that approval, two staff members will not be able to
attend. This staff member will attend in their place.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Oct. 2, 2014
Page 3 of 4






2.12

Student Trips: Student trips approved as submitted:






2.13
2.14
2.15

Administrative staff to attend the University Council for Educational Administration (UCEA) Righting
Civil Wrongs: Education for Racial Justice and Human Rights Convention in Washington, D.C.
November 20-23, 2014. Expenses will be paid for from deputy superintendent funds.
Kulshan Middle School staff to attend the Association for Middle Level Education Conference in San
Diego, California June 20-June 25, 2014. This travel request is after the fact because staff member
overlooked this approval step in the process. Expenses for travel were paid from the administrator's
professional development funds.
Administrative staff to attend the Harvard Educational Leadership Program in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, October 8-10, 2014. Expenses will be paid by the Harvard Residency Program and the
superintendent's budget.
Staff to attend the Association of Latino Administrators and Superintendents (ALAS) Conference,
October 15-18, 2014, in Atlanta, Georgia. Expenses will be paid from individual professional
development funds, family engagement funds, and superintendent's funds.
Squalicum High School orchestra to Disneyland for regional orchestra performances April 9-12,
2015. Expenses for this trip will be paid from fundraising and family contributions.
Sehome High School Boys Swim Team to travel to Long Beach, California from December 30, 2014 January 3, 2015 for their annual training. Expenses for this trip will be paid from fundraising and
family contributions.
Bellingham High School Distributive Education Clubs of America (DECA) students to attend the
DECA Fall Leadership Conference in Seattle, Washington November 2-4, 2014. Travel costs will be
covered by student contributions
Squalicum High School orchestra to compete and learn at the Central Washington University
Leadership Workshop, October 17-19, 2014 in Ellensburg, Washington. Expenses for the trip will be
covered by a combination of ASB funds, fundraising, and family contributions.
Fairhaven Middle School Prevention Team to attend the Youth Matter Leadership Retreat at Camp
Lutherwood, October 24-26, 2014 in Bellingham, Washington. Expenses for this trip will be covered
through the Whatcom Prevention Coalition and Whatcom County Health Department.

Approval of Surplus Items: Surplus items approved as submitted.
EL-1 Monitoring Report: Expectations of Superintendent: Action on monitoring report
as submitted. Board Response to the EL-1 Monitoring Report will occur at the Nov. 13, 2014
regular meeting.
EL-5 Monitoring Report: Communication and Counsel to the Board: Action on
monitoring report as submitted. Board Response to the EL-5 Monitoring Report will occur at
the Nov. 13, 2014 regular meeting.

3.
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Proposed Updates – B/SR 5.1.1 – Monitoring Response Document: Dr. Smith
discussed his recommendation to combine B/SR 5.1.1 and B/SR 5.1.2 and to revise some
of the current wording. Board members reviewed the revised document and suggested
further edits. Dr. Gass then made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to approve the
proposed revisions. (See Attachment A.)

4.
4.1

SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS
County & City Council Liaisons (Kelly Bashaw and Camille Hackler):
Ms. Hackler provided highlights of a recent meeting she and Ms. Bashaw had with City
Council Liaison Roxanne Murphy.
Superintendent Review (Steve Smith and Ken Gass): Dr. Smith and Dr. Gass are
compiling salary statistics from comparable school districts.

4.2

Draft Meeting Minutes
Oct. 2, 2014
Page 4 of 4

4.3

4.4

4.5
5.
5.1
5.2
5.3

5.4

6.
6.1
6.2

Board Manual: (Ken Gass and Steve Smith): A draft has been forwarded to
Communications and Community Relations Executive Director Tanya Rowe for review
purposes.
Policy Governance Enhancements (Steve Smith and Kelly Bashaw): Proposed
revisions to Board/Superintendent Relationship policies will be an agenda item on
Nov. 13.
Board Transparency/Community Connections (Kelly Bashaw): No report.
NEW BUSINESS
Disciplinary Appeals Council: This will be a discussion item at the Nov. 13 regular
board meeting.
WSSDA Regional Meeting: General discussion regarding this meeting, which occurs
Oct. 29 in Arlington.
Breakfast After the Bell: Dr. Gass expressed appreciation to Dr. Baker and Food
Services Director Mark Dalton for their work in supporting children’s learning through
this program, as well as through healthy snacks in schools, and the Farm to School
program.
Options High School: Ms. Hackler reported that a parent group at Options has decided
to form a PTA.
CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 5 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:48 p.m.

______________________
Steven Smith
School Board President
Attest:
____________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes Approved: ___________

