DRAFT MINUTES OF THE SPECIAL SESSION OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
September 13, 2014
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in special session September 13, 2014, in the library of
Birchwood Elementary School, 1320 Pinewood Ave., Bellingham, Washington.
President Steve Smith called the meeting to order at 8:30 a.m.
Roll Call: Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith,
and Superintendent Greg Baker. For a portion of the meeting, the Board was joined by Deputy
Superintendent Mike Copland.
Board members discussed the following items relating to Policy Governance and the annual calendar:
 Policy Governance - Recommendations:
o Ends 2 and Ends 3: Reporting will occur throughout the year, with an aggregated Ends-2
and Ends 3 report presented during the second meeting in June.
o Ends 2.1: The report will be divided into sections (Items 1-5). The Superintendent will
report on these sections in November, December, January, February, and March.
o Executive Limitations: Submit EL-6 and EL-9 reports in April and July, respectively. All
other EL reports will be placed on the calendar as appropriate throughout the year.
o Governance Process Policies and Board/Superintendent Relationship Policies: The
policies will be reviewed in January and presented to the Board with recommended
revisions, if any, in March.
 Board Study Sessions/Other Study Sessions (Superintendent Updates) - Recommendations:
o Early childhood birth to age 3
o Special Education update
o Restorative Justice
o Family Engagement
o Technology innovation
o Homeport and Seamar/Visions
 Suggested Linkages/Board Member Lead
o Faith-Based Community (Doug Benjamin)
o High School Seniors one year later (Steve Smith)
o Neighborhood Associations (Camille Hackler)
o Club Sports (Ken Gass)
o Health/Mental Health (Kelly Bashaw)
Other discussion items:
 The Washington State School Directors’ Assoc (WSSDA) – Board of Distinction application
 Board Manual
 Policy Governance Training Options
 Board Operating Policies and Updates (WSSDA 1000 series)
 Superintendent’s Review Committee update
The meeting adjourned at 1:30 p.m.

