March 30, 2021
School Board Meeting
Minutes
via Zoom/Phone Conference
7:00 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 7:05 P.M. Board Directors in attendance were Steve Jilk, Brian Johnson, Kelli
Kettels, CJ Costanti and David Vis. Student Director, Riley Anderson was present.
2. Information from the Audience
The following individuals addressed the School Board of Directors regarding the reopening of schools.
• Allen Jongema, Emma Johnson, Crow (Samantha Perera), Naomi Jenkins, Stacey Maxwell,
Carson Libolt, Jessica Libolt, Ava Bode, Heather Phillips, Kristine Nugent-Ohls, Veronica Parkins,
Jacquie Ellig, Jody Bogues (on behalf of Brian Miller), Trisha Card, Scott Brown, Ladd Van De
Hoef, Danaya Snavely, Julie Simmons, Nicole Medcalf, Mari Knudsen-Herbert
•
3. Board Work Session
• Reopening Updates
Jim Frey shared the recent conversation with the Whatcom County Health Department about
6ft. vs. 3ft. changes and the considerations to address.
Jim Frey provided information about the steps being taken to plan for more in-person learning
for K-12 students and beginning in April, it is recommended to move from the 6 ft. to the 3 ft.
rule for K-12 students with provisions of shortened days and a week. Jim provided specific
requirements for both elementary and secondary learning and common areas to make the safe
precautions.
The Board of Directors and Student Board Director expressed their encouragement of the plan
the Lynden School District Board will have in place for the remainder of the 2020-2021 school
year. It was also recognized of all of the staff that have been working very hard to do the best
for students and staff.
Jim will provide further details and communicate with staff, families and communities.
•

Superintendent Search
The Board shared the announcement of Superintendent, Jim Frey’s, resignation effective June
30, 2021. The Board discussed the process in the search for a superintendent and timeline to
make an efficient transition working with Northwest Leadership Associates.
School Board President, Steve Jilk, shared the sentiments of many on the appreciation of Jim’s
service and leadership.

9. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:53 P.M.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

