BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
September 23, 2010
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session September 23, 2010 in the
Board Room of the Administration Building.
OPENING ITEMS
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ann Whitmyer, President Ken
Gass, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Steve Smith moved and Ann Whitmyer seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of September 9, 2010 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, September 10, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, September 17, 2010

($927,410.00)
($104,000.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, investment, September 10, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, September 17, 2010

$41,850.00
($725,460.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, September 10, 2010
WCIP, investment, September 17, 2010

$28,420.00
$35,500.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, investment, September 10, 2010
WCIP, investment, September 17, 2010

$122,050.00
$67,805.00

Personal Services Contracts
a) Peggy Taylor in connection with August 2010 consulting services.

School Board Minutes
September 23, 2010
Page 2 of 7
b) Mary Jo Stuckrath in connection with her services as a Title I/LAP Read 180 coordinator
from August 2010–June 2011.
c) World language interpreters for the 2010–11 school year as follows:
i. Cody Gillin, Spanish
ii. Paz Patricia Curtis, Spanish
iii. Erika Gurrola, Spanish
iv. Stephanie Miller, Spanish/Dutch
v. Erika Quintanilla, Spanish
vi. Claudia Vizcarra, Spanish
vii. Alexander Timofeyev, Russian/Ukrainian
d) Mary Nuckolls to provide home and hospital tutoring on an as-needed basis during the
2010–11 school year.
e) Jennifer Styer to administer and score performance tests for classified applicants during
the 2010–11 school year.
f) Deborah Roth to serve as a sign language interpreter on an as-needed basis beginning
September 24, 2010–August 31, 2011.
Contracts
a) Contract between Lakewood School District and Bellingham School District for the
2010–11 school year for Lakewood School District to provide prevention and
intervention services to students and families through a substance abuse intervention
specialist.
b) Agreement between Home Port Learning Center and Bellingham School District for the
2010–11 school year for Home Port Learning Center to provide an educational program
for adjudicated youth while under the supervision of Whatcom County Juvenile Court.
Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.
Out-of-State Travel
a) The superintendent to attend the American Association of School Administrators
(AASA) National Conference on Education in Denver Colorado, February 17–19, 2011.
b) A Wade King Elementary School World Language teacher to attend the 2010 Advanced
Study and Training Program in Beijing, China, November 17–23, 2010.
c) Geneva Elementary School administrator to attend the Decision Making for Results: Data
Teams Seminar, in Dana Point, California, October 13–14, 2010.
Student Trips
a) Three Bellingham High School students to attend the 2010 Leadership Summit and
Education Forum in National Harbor, Maryland, November 7–9, 2010.
b) Fairhaven Middle School 8th graders to travel to Camp Orkila on Orcas Island to study
Puget Sound ecosystems, October 6–8, 2010.
c) Happy Valley Elementary School 5th graders to attend the North Cascades Institute’s
Mountain School 5th Grade Ecosystem Explorations Program, October 13–15, 2010.

School Board Minutes
September 23, 2010
Page 3 of 7
d) The Sehome High School baseball team to participate in the Amphitheatre High School
Spring Invitational Baseball Classic, March 9–14, 2011 (in concept).
e) Wade King Elementary School 5th graders to attend the North Cascades Institute’s
Mountain School Ecosystem Explorations Program, October 4–6, 2010.
REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
All of the School Board Directors reported attending the Policy Governance Workshop on
Saturday, September 11, 2010 to expand their knowledge of Policy Governance. Each Board
member has also met individually with Superintendent Baker. In addition:
Steve Smith attended Kulshan Middle School Curriculum Night. Kulshan has been working to
address issues around a large 6th grade class. Dr. Smith also attended Bellingham High School
Graduation Night, an evening planned to help seniors and their families plan for the many
requirements for graduation and beyond. Smith also joined Dr. Gass and Dr. Baker to review and
plan the agenda for the Board meeting.
Kelly Bashaw attended Northern Heights Curriculum Night. She enjoyed hearing an update on
their progress to become an International Baccalaureate Primary Years school.
Scott Stockburger commented on the new district system, School Messenger, used to send
notifications to staff and families. He acknowledged experiencing some difficulties with the
program. He also expressed appreciation to those who submit comments to the Listening Post as
he finds them very helpful.
Ann Whitmyer attended the Back to School Night at Roosevelt Elementary School. Roosevelt
invited 3rd grade families to come in ahead of time to learn more about the intermediate
curriculum. She attended two events at Carl Cozier Elementary School–the Fitness Friday
run/walk at Civic Field and the Back to School social. Ms. Whitmyer also watched a webinar on
cyberbullying; attended a breakfast to plan for the supplemental levy election; and visited the
Maintenance Department, one of her adopted facilities. Whitmyer commented that for 25 year in
a row, she has participated in the magazine drive for Fairhaven Middle School.
In addition to attending the Policy Governance workshop with the other Directors, Ken Gass
attended the levy breakfast, and met with Steve Smith and Greg Baker to review and plan the
agenda for the Board meeting.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Greg Baker has continued visiting schools and expressed his appreciation to teachers and
staff for being so fully engaged in providing an outstanding education to each student.
He gave an update on transportation and thanked the Transportation Department for their hard
work in continuing to problem solve.

School Board Minutes
September 23, 2010
Page 4 of 7
Dr. Baker acknowledged receiving many comments from concerned Kulshan Middle School
families regarding the large class sizes for 6th graders. He reviewed middle school class sizes
across the district, which indicated 61 of 389 middle school classes have 31 or more students. Of
those 61 classes, 35 are at Kulshan, 13 at Fairhaven, 13 at Shuksan and none at Geneva. Of the
35 classes at Kulshan, 31 are at 6th grade. Interventions that have been put in place include
allocating additional district FTE, offering families the option to transfer to other schools; using
parent and community volunteers to help with clerical work for teachers; use of trigger money
for teachers; and closing 6th grade enrollment to new students at Kulshan.
In a meeting with Whatcom County Superintendents, Dr. Jerry Jenkins, Northwest Educational
Service District Superintendent, confirmed that Governor Gregoire indicated there would be an
additional approximate 6% reduction in budgets across the state. Funds that the district will
receive from the federal government will have to be used first to counter these state-wide
reductions.
Dr. Baker has continued to listen and talk with the community, as set forth in his entry plan.
Since the last Board meeting on September 9, he has met with other superintendents, district
attorneys, educational leaders, local officials and community agencies. Baker has started his
Fitness Fridays and all-day school visits. As set out in the Entry Plan, his goal is to spend one
full day at each school by Winter Break.
Audience
Charlotte Frock addressed the Board about her concerns with the size of the 6th grade classes at
Kulshan Middle School. She feels such large classes sets up children to fail and is unacceptable.
She requested four instructional assistants per team and to use funds from the Education Job
Fund.
REPORTS
Summer School 2009–10
Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma introduced Kenn Robinson, executive director of
Categorical Programs and Support Services, who reported on the on-line learning opportunity for
high school students. According to high school teachers Joe McAuliffe and Tara Vaughan, the
program focused on support for high school students who are at risk to not graduate on time due
to insufficient credits. For the second year, the Spokane School District’s Virtual Learning
System was used to provide an online learning opportunity. Twenty nine out of the thirty one
students enrolled completed their work. Several reasons were given for the success of the
program, including students were required to work in the school computer lab; parents had the
ability to log on and view their student’s work; and two teachers provided support for the
students, helping them with both technical issues and keeping them focused on work.
Elementary teachers Donna Ringwald and Meredith Hansen reported on the elementary summer
school program at Alderwood, Birchwood, Roosevelt and Sunnyland. Each school designed their
program specifically to serve their students’ needs. The elementary program served 119 students.
Approximately 50 special education students were enrolled in the extended school year program,
which works to maintain the students’ current level of learning skills and behaviors.

School Board Minutes
September 23, 2010
Page 5 of 7

Recommendations for next year included adding a short, but intense, program for middle school
students to get them ready for high school; changing the timing of summer school to take into
account when families receive student grades; aggressively encouraging increased participation
at the high school level; and separating the high school labs into two sections–one for math and
one for literacy.
Mr. Brandsma and Mr. Robinson expressed appreciation to Nancy Barga, who served as summer
school principal, and Belinda Schacht, summer school secretary, and the summer school teachers
for a successful summer school program.
2009–10 Enrollment Report
Ron Cowan, assistant superintendent of Business and Operations, reported on the enrollment
based on the OSPI September 10, 2010 official count day. The total headcount for the District
was 10,672, an increase of 88 students over last year’s headcount of 10,584. Enrollment at the
elementary schools increased by 71 students; middle school enrollment increased by 33 students;
and high school enrollment decreased by 16 students. State funding is based on the average of
the nine monthly enrollment counts (Actual Annual Average FTE–AAAFTE). Cowan reported
that the estimated 2010–2011 AAAFTE count will be approximately 25 less than the budgeted
AAAFTE. Cowan responded to questions from the Board. The Board requested information on
the number of students who transfer to other districts.
Student Achievement 2010
Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma and Brian Rick, Assessment and Evaluation Specialist,
reported the results of the student achievement testing, including the Washington Measurements
of Student Progress (MSP); High School Proficiency Exam (HSPE); and Adequate Yearly
Progress (AYP). Significant professional development with teachers and para-educators and an
emphasis with teachers, students and families on the importance of the testing has reflected
significant progress in the number of students meeting state standards. Brandsma and Rick
reviewed the assessment data, including on-time graduation rates and the current district
Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) status. As reported by Mr. Rick, four elementary schools, three
middle schools and all the high schools failed to make AYP. Even though the district is forced to
operate with a declining budget, the state is still requiring higher and higher standards.
The district is continuing to emphasize professional development for certificated staff, including
having job-alike teams work together in professional learning communities. On-time graduation
will be a focus of the October 6 Leadership meeting.
Brandsma and Rick responded to questions from the Board, including why graduation rates are
low and what the district can do to improve the graduation rates. Among many suggestions
discussed, Brandsma said high school principals are working with principals from other district
who have experienced success in achieving higher graduating rates; reviewing data on each
student to make sure they are coded correctly; providing catch-up opportunities year around; and
having a dedicated staff to work more closely with students to ensure success.

School Board Minutes
September 23, 2010
Page 6 of 7
Dr. Baker thanked Mr. Brandsma and Mr. Rick for putting the data together. As a district, we
need to work to ensure all students are progressing. The Board indicated it would be helpful if
there was a way to compare cohort scores over time.

ACTION ITEMS
Resolution 21-10, Policy Governance
Resolution 21–10, Policy Governance, was submitted to the Board for a first reading and
discussion. The Board did not recommend any changes and, in accordance with the Resolution,
plan to start using the Policy Governance method of governing on October 28, 2010. The
Resolution will be submitted for a final reading at the October 14, 2010 Board meeting.
Governance Policy GP-3, Board Job Description
Governance Policy GP-3, Board Job Description, was approved by the Board of Directors at the
September 10, 2009 School Board meeting. Revisions have been made and submitted to the
Board for a first reading and discussion. Additional revisions were made and will be submitted
for a final reading at the October 14, 2010 Board meeting.
Governance Policy GP-13, Cost of Governance
Governance Policy GP-13, Cost of Governance, was submitted to the Board for a first reading
and discussion. The Board did not recommend any changes in the document. GP-3, Cost of
Governance, will be submitted for a final reading at the October 14, 2010 Board meeting
Governance Policy GP-7.1, Annual Calendar
Governance Policy GP-7.1, Annual Calendar, was submitted to the Board for a first reading and
discussion. No changes were recommended and GP 7.1, Annual Calendar, will be submitted for
a final reading at the October 14, 2010 Board meeting.
Ends 2.1, District Standards for Measuring Academic Competence
Ends 2.1, District Standards for Measuring Academic Competence, was submitted to the Board
for a first reading and discussion. No changes were recommended and Ends 2.1, District
Standards for Measuring Academic Competence, will be submitted for a final reading at the
October 14, 2010 Board meeting.
Resolution 22–10, Supplemental Levy
Resolution 22–10, Supplemental Levy, was submitted to the Board for review and discussion.
The Resolution has been submitted to legal counsel for review prior to being presented to the
Board for a final review and approval at a subsequent meeting. The Board discussed and offered
suggestions for Ron Cowan to share with legal counsel. Mr. Cowan and Director Smith will
work together with legal counsel to refine the wording.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations
Ann Whitmyer moved and Steve Smith seconded the motion to approve the personnel
recommendations as presented. The motion carried unanimously.

School Board Minutes
September 23, 2010
Page 7 of 7

CLOSING ITEMS
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 9:40 p.m.

