BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
September 9, 2010
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session September 9, 2010 in the
Board Room of the District Office.
OPENING ITEMS
At 6:30 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ann Whitmyer, President Ken
Gass, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
Executive Session
At 6:30 p.m. President Gass adjourned the regular meeting to begin executive session. The
purpose of the executive session was collective bargaining agreements. Dr. Gass announced the
regular session would reconvene at 7:00 p.m. They were joined in executive session by Nora
Klewiada, executive director of Human Resources.
At 7:00 p.m. Dr. Gass reconvened the regular session.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw moved and Scott Stockburger seconded approval of the consent agenda. The
motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of August 26, 2010 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.

xxx

GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, August 31, 2010

($10,000.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, August 31, 2010

($614,950.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, August 31, 2010

$11,250.00

School Board Minutes
September 9, 2010
Page 2 of 5

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, August 31, 2010
TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, August 31, 2010

($38,100.00)

(400.00)

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Elvira Rozen to provide Spanish language interpreting services on an as-needed basis at
the high school (one contract to be issued for interpreter services performed for both
Squalicum High School and Categorical Programs and Student Support).
b) Leah Sauser to serve as an intern in the Communications and Community Relations
Office from August through October, 2010.
c) World language interpreters as follows:
Haruko Bearden
Japanese
Maria Blanco
Spanish
Anthony Brown
Spanish
Van Do
Vietnamese
Meydi Galeas
Spanish
Lindsay MacDonald
Spanish
Galina Mazurets
Russian/Ukrainian
Frances (“Frankie”) McCarrell Spanish
Elvira Rozen
Spanish
Reena Rughani
Hindi/Gujarati
Lidia Tilman-McAdoo
Spanish
Cuong Truong
Vietnamese
Patricia Watling
Spanish
d) Laura Kaptinski to serve as a sign language interpreter during the 2010–11 school year.
e) Fred Knight to provide AED/CPR training to designated staff during the month of
September 2010.
f) Peggy Taylor to serve as an HCL Program Transition Facilitator from September 1,
through November 30, 2010.
Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.
Award of Bid
Award of bid for food service and vending to Walton Beverage/Advantage Vending.
Contracts
a) Agreement between Bellingham Technical College and Bellingham School District for
the Running Start Program for the 2010–2011 school year.

School Board Minutes
September 9, 2010
Page 3 of 5

b) Agreement between Washington State University and Bellingham Public Schools for the
District to be a training site for nursing students to participate in clinical learning
experience.
Out-of-State Travel
a) One Curriculum Department staff member to attend the 47th Northwest Mathematics
Conference in Spokane, Washington, October 7–9, 2010.
b) Four Larrabee Elementary School staff to attend the National Science Teachers
Association Conference in San Francisco, CA, March 10–13, 2010.
Student Trips
a) Bellingham High School Concert Choir to participate in a concert tour to Olympia, WA,
November 14–16, 2010.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Steve Smith reported attending the September 2 Back to School All Staff Kick Off. He also
visited Silver Beach, Happy Valley, and Parkview elementary schools during their “Meet and
Greet” opportunities. He visited Bellingham High School and Kulshan Middle School on the first
day of school. During his visits he was reminded that, as a School Board Director, focus is on all
students, but as he met individual students and parents it is also about fulfilling the needs of each
unique child.
Kelly Bashaw attended the Back to School All Staff Kick Off and visited Wade King, Lowell
and Carl Cozier elementary schools during the “Meet and Greet” times. On the first day of
school, Ms. Bashaw visited Shuksan Middle School.
Scott Stockburger has been busy reading articles on Policy Governance to prepare for the
workshop on Saturday, September 11. He also attended the Back to School Kick Off and heard
many positive comments from staff about Dr. Baker meeting and shaking hands with all staff.
Stockburger visited Lowell Elementary School and was impressed with how nice the school
looked. He commented that the bus was late picking students up at the end of the day. He also
thought Fairhaven Middle School opened successfully, but commended one of the math classes
had 37 students.
Ann Whitmyer attended the New Teacher Orientation on August 30 and observed there were
only five new teachers. The others had transferred from other districts. She attended the All Staff
Kick Off; had lunch with Dr. Gass and Dr. Baker to review the agenda for the Board meeting;
and met with Dr. Gass to plan for the Policy Governance workshop on September 11. Ms.
Whitmyer observed training at Larrabee Elementary School; attended Back to School events at
Roosevelt and Larrabee elementary schools; visited Sehome High School on the first day of
school; and attended a breakfast for levy planning purposes.

School Board Minutes
September 9, 2010
Page 4 of 5

Ken Gass asked if schools knew which Board member had adopted each school so the directors
would receive notices of special events. Tanya Rowe, director of Communications and
Community Relations, said schools had been notified.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Greg Baker reviewed the start of school and thanked district staff and schools for their work
to prepare for the first day. On Tuesday, September 7, district administrators, community leaders
and the School Board met students and families at schools to welcome them. He noted beginning
with from the first day of school students and teachers are engaged in learning. The District
executive team has been reviewing enrollment numbers by grade and by school and making
adjustments, as necessary. Transportation has been a challenge, complicated by new staff, new
software, and issues caused by the Whatcom Middle School fire. The District Office has been
working with the Transportation Department to problem solve and provide extra support. Each
day has seen improvement. Dr. Baker expressed concern with the Whatcom Middle School buses
and will continue to look closely to make sure the current system is the best solution. Baker has
also observed the budget reductions enacted over the last two years is impacting District work.
He has also observed a disparity in facilities and would like to work to bring all facilities up to a
higher and more equal level.
Dr. Baker reviewed progress on his Entry Plan. Since the last Board meeting, he has attended the
new teacher orientation, toured Cordata Elementary School site, attended the All Staff Kick Off,
met with Options High School staff, attended a Silver Beach all staff pot luck, and attended
several athletic games. On a community level, Dr. Baker has met with Representative Rick
Erickson, toured Whatcom Community College, participated in a ribbon cutting for the Fraser
Street boardwalk, attended a meeting of the Parent Advisory Committee and a kick-off luncheon
for United Way.
He thanked the entire staff, especially Transportation, the executive team and their staff for their
work during this first week of school.
Audience
Charlotte Frock addressed the Board with concern over the size of the 6th grade class at Kulshan
Middle School and requested additional teachers to serve students. It especially impacts special
needs students when they are in large classes. She feels it is not equitable for students to be in
such large classes when other schools have much smaller classes. She also feels it is not fair to
evaluate teachers with large classes when other teachers have small classes.
Shining Star Awards
Shining Star Awards are presented by the School Board at each meeting to recognize outstanding
accomplishments of students, staff, schools and departments.
Ron Cowan, assistant superintendent of Business and Operations, presented a Shining Star to
Kathryn Weilage, Accounting supervisor, in recognition of becoming a Certified School
Business Official, as determined by the Washington Association of School Business Officials
(WASBO) Certification Governance Board.
REPORTS

School Board Minutes
September 9, 2010
Page 5 of 5

Professional Development Opportunities for School Board Directors
The Board discussed opportunities for professional development for School Board directors, in
particularly the National School Board Association (NSBA) Annual Conference. In an effort to
continue professional development while honoring budget reductions, various options were
suggested, such as sending fewer members to conferences, asking those who attend to seek input
from other directors on sessions to attend, reporting back to other members, and committing to
continue serving on the Board for at least one additional year. As the Board moves to the Policy
Governance model of governing, the Board will take a more active role in monitoring the Board
budget. In summary, there is much value in having directors attend conferences and share
information with other directors. Dr. Baker commented there is additional value in having two
directors attend to allow them an opportunity to reflect and share with each other. The directors
are to let Dr. Gass know if they are interested in attending the NSBA Annual Conference.

ACTION ITEMS
Highly Capable Learners’ Program I-Grant Application
Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma reported Board approval is required as a final step in the
I-Grant application for the State Highly Capable Learners’ Program funding. Mr. Brandsma
reviewed changes in the program and department. Mr. Brandsma indicated a complete review of
the Highly Capable Learners’ Program would be completed during this school year. Ann
Whitmyer moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve the Highly Capable
Learners’ Program I-Grant Application. The motion carried unanimously.
Resolution 20–10, Final Acceptance of Shuksan Middle School Phase II
Ann Whitmyer moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve Resolution 20–10,
Final Acceptance of Shuksan Middle School Phase II. Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan
reported that Zervas Group Architects has certified the work by Interwest Construction, Inc. for
the play field at Shuksan Middle School has been completed. He responded to questions
regarding the depressed area in the playfield. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations
Kelly Bashaw moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the motion to approve the personnel
recommendations as presented. The motion carried unanimously.

CLOSING ITEMS
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:10 p.m.

