BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 23, 2012
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session February 23, 2012 in the
Board Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.

OPENING ITEMS
At 7 p.m. President Kelly Bashaw called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, President Kelly
Bashaw, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Scott Stockburger met with Kelly Bashaw and Greg Baker to review the agenda items for the
Board Study Session. He also sent the Board and Superintendent an email about standards-based
curriculum and detracking.
Ken Gass visited Shuksan Middle School on Feb. 15. Shuksan has been working to share with
community, parents and neighbors their successes by encouraging visits to the school to engage
with students. The school has a high percentage of students receiving free and reduced lunch and
a high number who speak other languages. On Feb. 16, the Board held a Study Session to discuss
the upcoming Board schedule and future community linkages.
Camille Hackler participated in the Board Study Session and visited Sunnyland Elementary
School.
Steve Smith went to Sehome High School to hear Dr. Baker’s presentation on the Bellingham
Promise. He commented it was a great presentation and prompted valuable and robust
discussion. He plans to attend additional presentations.
Kelly Bashaw participated in phoning community members asking for support for the two levies.
She thanked the community for their strong vote of support for both the maintenance and

School Board Minutes
February 23, 2012
Page 2 of 5
operations levy and the technology levy. Ms. Bashaw also met with Scott Stockburger and Greg
Baker prior to the Board Study Session. The Board met in a Study Session on Feb. 16.
Legislative Report
Dr. Gass reported on recent legislative action. Budget decisions are making their way through the
House and Senate but final decisions will be made later. It appears there will be major cuts to the
Safety Net, which will impact school districts. Another area under discussion includes
evaluations for teachers and principals.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Greg Baker acknowledged the maintenance and operations levy and the
technology levy passed with an extremely high percent of support. He expressed his appreciation
to the community and staff for their support. He has been presenting the Bellingham Promise to
school and department staff, Parent Advisory Committee, and Student Advisory Committee. He
still has a few schools to visit and will also meet with Bellingham Association of School
Employees (BASE). At each presentation, there has been valuable discussion, which Dr. Baker
will present to the Board in a summary format.
Dr. Baker announced that Director of Communications and Community Relations Tanya Rowe
had a baby boy on Feb. 20.
Upcoming calendar events:
• March 2: Board site visit to Happy Valley Elementary School
• March 8: Linkage with employee groups at Bellingham High School
Dr. Baker introduced Brian Rick, Research and Assessment manager, who gave a brief overview
of the Washington State Achievement Index. The Washington Achievement Awards, sponsored
by the Washington State Board of Education and the Office of Superintendent of Public
Instruction, celebrates the state’s top-performing schools and recognizes achievement in multiple
categories. These awards are given to elementary, middle and high schools for achievement in
eight different categories, including Overall Excellence. The award for Overall Excellence is
based on each school’s Achievement Index, a state-wide measure of school performance that
includes student achievement in reading, writing, mathematics and science. This index considers
how schools are improving over time, how they compare to schools of similar demographics, and
whether they are closing achievement gaps. Alderwood Elementary School and Kulshan Middle
School were each awarded the 2011 Washington Achievement Award for Overall Excellence.
Alderwood Elementary School Principal Stephanie Korn recognized the Alderwood staff and
thanked them for their hard work and dedication. The Kulshan Middle School staff will be
recognized at the March 22 School Board meeting.
Shining Star Awards
Shining Star Awards are presented by the School Board to recognize outstanding
accomplishments of students, staff, schools and departments.

School Board Minutes
February 23, 2012
Page 3 of 5
Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Steve Clarke introduced Shuksan Middle School
Principal Jay Jordan. Mr. Jordan introduced 8th grade student Maya Enstad. Ms. Enstad begin
studing the cello 2 ½ years ago and has progressed rapidly, winning a concerto competition for
the North Sound Youth Symphony, which earned her the privilege of being a soloist at a concert
this fall at Western Washington University. Ms. Enstad is also a member of the Seattle Youth
Symphony and participated this past summer at the Marrow-Stone Music Festival held at
Western Washington University where she was the youngest musician to play with the Upper
Orchestra. Maya was also the first chair for the Middle School All-Northwest Orchestra which
recently played in Yakima. Ms. Enstad thanked the Board for the opportunity to play a
movement from a Bach concerto for them.
Audience
No audience presented.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
President Kelly Bashaw asked for Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable and Executive Director
Steve Clarke to discuss with the Board and clarify the recommended changes in Policy and
Procedure 3131, Student Attendance Area Transfers, and Policy and Procedure 3141, Admission
of Non-Resident Students.
After discussing these two Policies and Procedures, President Bashaw asked for a motion to
approve the Consent Agenda as submitted, including Policy and Procedure 3131 and 3141. Ken
Gass moved and Scott Stockburger seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion carried
unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of the February 9, 2012 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, February 10, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, February 17, 2012

($149,000.00)
($469,200.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, February 10, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, February 17, 2012

($88,475.00)
($25,875.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, February 10, 2012
WCIP, investment, February 17, 2012

$9,500.00
$6,800.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, February 10, 2012

($14,115.00)

School Board Minutes
February 23, 2012
Page 4 of 5
WCIP, investment, February 17, 2012

$27,830.00

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, January 2012
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.
Surplus Equipment, Furniture, Electronics
Action on surplus equipment, furniture, and electronics as submitted.
Out-of-State Travel
a) Special Education staff to attend the “Panel of Experts” Committee for the American
Printing House for the Blind in Louisville, Kentucky, March 12–13, 2012. Expenses for
the travel are paid for by the Department of Education.
Student Trips
a) Sehome High School Mock Trial Club to attend the State Competitions in Olympia,
March 23–25, 2012. The trip will be funded with ASB funds, Whatcom Bar Association
and families.
b) Sehome High School Thespian Troupe to attend the State Thespian Convention in
Ellensburg, Washington, March 15–17, 2012. The trip will be funded with ASB funds.
c) Sehome High School DECA Club to attend the State Career Development Conference in
Bellevue, Washington, March 8–10, 2012. The trip will be funded with ASB funds.
d) Squalicum High School German students to participate in an immersion camp in
Carnation, Washington, March 30–31, 2012. The trip will be funded with student funds
and the American Association of Teachers of German.
Administrative Policies and Procedures
Action on Administrative Policies and Procedures as follows:
a) Policy 2410, High School Graduation Requirements (revised)
b) Policy and Procedure 3131, Student Attendance Area Transfers (revised)
c) Policy and Procedure 3141, Admission of Non-Resident Students (revised)
Personal Services Contracts
a) Kathryn Lantz to support the Highly Capable Learners Program during February and
March 2012.
b) Nick James to facilitate writing workshops from January through June 2012.
c) Anisa Zareh-Mohazzab to serve as a Farsi language interpreter on an as-needed basis,
effective February 24 through August 31, 2012.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.

School Board Minutes
February 23, 2012
Page 5 of 5
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Monitoring Report for EL-16, District Calendar
Executive Director of Human Resources Nora Klewiada gave a monitoring report on EL-16,
District Calendar, to the Board. Ms. Klewiada indicated the district is “in compliance” and
identified supporting criteria. The Board will respond to this monitoring report at the March 22,
2012 Board meeting.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Monitoring Report for EL-4, Staff Treatment
Monitoring Report for EL-8, Budget Execution
The Board approved the Monitoring Report for EL-4, Staff Treatment, which the Board heard at
the December 8, 2011 School Board meeting and EL-8, Budget Execution, which the Board
heard at the February 9, 2012 School Board meeting. There were no concerns and the Board
accepted the monitoring reports as being in compliance.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Ken Gass assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was good.

Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8 p.m.

