BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 6, 2012
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session November 6, 2012 in the
Board Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
At 5:45 p.m. President Kelly Bashaw called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Kelly
Bashaw, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
Audience
None
School Board Directors’ Reports
Ken Gass met with representatives from other Whatcom County Boards of Directors to plan a
meeting with legislators. The group hopes to arrange a meeting with legislators prior to their
return to Olympia for the next legislative session.
Camille Hackler met with Greg Baker and Kelly Bashaw for a lunch meeting. She also attended
the Silver Beach Elementary School book fair and joined Habitat for Humanity for Make a
Difference Day at Alderwood Elementary School. They focused on building picnic tables and
benches for the school garden.
Dr. Scott Stockburger expressed disappointment that the neighborhood association linkage had to
be cancelled. He also indicated he was looking forward to attending the Washington State School
Directors Association Annual Conference next week in Spokane.
Dr. Steve Smith joined Kelly Bashaw at an open house at Bellingham Technical College. During
the event, they enjoyed a conversation with a former Bellingham Public School student who is
currently serving as president of the student body.

School Board Minutes
November 6, 2012
Page 2 of 6
Kelly Bashaw joined Camille Hackler and Greg Baker for a lunch meeting. She also attended a
meeting with high school counselors focused on the best ways to encourage students to pursue a
higher education. Ms. Bashaw also encouraged the Board to view the showing of “First
Generation” which is being shown to all district families at 6:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 8 in the
Squalicum High School Forum. There is an additional showing for district staff at 4:30 p.m.
Thursday, Nov. 8 in the Whatcom Middle School auditorium. President Bashaw also announced
this is her last meeting as president. The Board will elect new officers at the Dec. 13 meeting.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Baker gave the Board an update on the work of the Facilities Task Force. In
keeping with Policy Governance policy EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection, the task force,
led by co-chairs Linden and Jim Darling, has been analyzing data. Using the mantra, Place
Matters: Staying in the Future, Dr. Baker reported they are doing amazing work. The task force
will make a recommendation to the superintendent.
Dr. Baker referenced an article he recently forwarded to the Board on Collective Impact, which
connects to Ends 1, Strategic Mission and Vision, and Ends 2, Academic Achievement. Dr.
Baker and Francisco Rios, Dean of Woodring College of Education, have been meeting monthly
for over a year to discuss common issues. One of the outcomes of these meetings was a recent
retreat with staff from the district, Western Washington University and community partners to
discuss and plan how the university and community can work together on The Bellingham
Promise. There is already much overlap with the mission and goals of the university and
community partners. The work was very energizing and powerful.
Dr. Baker introduced Michelle Nilsen, Squalicum High School counselor, who shared
information on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) program. Recently, Ms.
Nilsen presented at the FAFSA Annual Conference. In 2012, the United States Department of
Education’s Office of Federal Student Aid launched a program that enabled 20 sites, including
Bellingham Public Schools, to begin tracking FAFSA completion among its seniors. Ms. Nilsen
reported that initial data reflects 90% of students who file a FAFSA and receive an estimated
family contribution will enroll in postsecondary education within one year of graduation.
Bellingham was recognized at the convention as having the second highest FAFSA completion
rate increases since the project’s inception. The district goal for 2013 is to increase our
completion rate from 60% to 70%, specifically targeting Hispanic students. As Ms. Nilsen
indicated, high school is not the end of the journey, but the beginning. Ms. Nilsen introduced
Navdeep Toora, Squalicum High School graduate, who spoke about the benefit of working with
her AVID teacher and the FAFSA program. Ms. Toora encouraged others to apply for FAFSA
and responded to questions from the Board.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion carried
unanimously.
Approval of Minutes

School Board Minutes
November 6, 2012
Page 3 of 6
Action on the minutes of October 18, 2012 School Board Meeting as amended by Scott
Stockburger.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, investment, October 19, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 24, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 26, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 31, 2012

$605,000.00
$1,600,000.00
$1,292,000.00
$1,437,000.00

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, October 19, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 24, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 26, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 31, 2012

($274,285.00)
$115,000.00
$97,000.00
$199,575.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, October 19, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 24, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 26, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 31, 2012

$250,000.00
$640,000.00
$520,000.00
$1,088,000.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, October 19, 2012
WCIP, investment, October 31, 2012

($3,950.00)
$12,625.00

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, October 2012
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Approval of Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.
Approval of Surplus Items
Action on surplus items as submitted.
Approval of Contracts and Resolutions
a) Resolution 13–12, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund.
b) Agreement between Bellingham School District and the Whatcom Community Sailing
Association for the Association to provide sailing clubs at three comprehensive high
schools for the 2012–13 school year.
c) Interlocal Agreement between Bellingham School District and the City of Bellingham for
a District Resource Officer for the 2012–13 school year.

School Board Minutes
November 6, 2012
Page 4 of 6
Approval of Student Trips
a) Bellingham High School and Kulshan Middle School students to attend the Washington
State Prevention Summit in Yakima, Washington, November 4–6, 2012. Whatcom
Prevention Coalition and Whatcom County Health Department grants will cover the cost
of this travel. This request is after the fact.
b) Squalicum High School band students to participate in the Western International Band
Clinic Honor Band in SeaTac, Washington, November 16–19, 2012. Funding for this trip
will be from ASB funds, student fundraising, and the Booster Club.
c) Sehome High School DECA Club to attend the Western Regional Leadership Conference
in Seattle, Washington, November 15–18, 2012. Funds for the trip will be provided by
the ASB and fundraising.
Approval of Out-of-State Travel
a) Two district administrators to attend the AVID Conference in San Diego, California,
December 6–8, 2012. Expenses will be paid from department budgets.
Approval of Personal Services Contracts
a) Marion Hiller to provide instructional technology training and professional development
during the 2012–13 school year.
b) Michael Ainsworth to provide consultant services for the Special Education Department,
including compliance training for Citizen’s Complaint as directed by OSPI, for the 2012–
13 school year.
c) Kathrina Henry to provide athletic trainer duties at Squalicum High School for the 2012–
13 school year.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
The Board discussed the proposed revisions to Executive Limitations EL-3. A draft prepared by
Director Steve Smith was presented to the Board for discussion. Ken Gass moved and Steve
Smith seconded a motion to modify paragraph 2 (c.) to read “Provide public, parents and
students relevant information on student progress toward achieving Board Ends policies.” The
motion carried unanimously. Ken Gass moved and Steve Smith seconded a motion to delete
paragraph 2 (d.) (iii.). The motion carried unanimously. Ken Gass moved and Steve Smith
seconded a motion to approve the Executive Limitations EL-3 as revised and delete Executive
Limitation 12, Communication with the Public, and Executive Limitation 17, Student Conduct
and Discipline. The motion carried with Dr. Stockburger abstaining.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
The Board heard the Monitoring Report for Ends 2.0, Academic Achievement, and Ends 2.1,
Student Competence, at the October 18, 2012 Board meeting.

School Board Minutes
November 6, 2012
Page 5 of 6
Dr. Ken Gass acknowledged that the data in the monitoring report shows the district has made
significant progress in moving toward compliance. He appreciated the comparison with
comparable districts. The Board thanked Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable and Manager
Brian Rick for the quality of the report and suggested this report could be used as a basis for
future monitoring reports.
Key points made by the Board and discussed included:
• The rationale on how the districts were selected for comparison and suggestions to
include a justification on why certain districts were selected. The Board felt it would be
helpful to broaden the number or location of schools used for comparison to include other
states and countries. However, it was pointed out that each state funds education
differently so it is difficult to compare and difficult to obtain similar data. Dr. Baker
indicated an informal way the district obtains information from other states and countries
is by having teams attend conferences that involve attendees from a broad range of
locations.
• A suggestion was made to include math scores; however, Mr. Rick said it is difficult to
access these scores from other districts.
• The Board suggested it would be helpful if the report could include data from every
student. Dr. Baker indicated the district is making steps toward this goal.
• They acknowledged the need to stretch ourselves and look at best practices from other
districts.
In summary, the Board felt the evidence and data presented was very complete and above their
expectations and acknowledged we have to do the best we can within a defined system. Scott
Stockburger moved and Steve Smith seconded the motion to approve the monitoring report on
Ends 2.0, Academic Achievement, and Ends 2.1, Student Competence, as “Moving Toward
Compliance.” The motion carried unanimously.
The Board then considered any modifications to the two Policy Governance policies, Ends 2.0
and 2.1. Steve Smith moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the motion to make no changes in
either policy. The motion carried unanimously.

NEW BUSINESS
Linkage Review
The Board debriefed from linkages and discussed future linkages. Linkages are tentatively
scheduled for January 24, 2013, March 28, 2013 and May 23, 2013.
Dr. Stockburger moved to lengthen linkages to 90 minutes at the discretion of the lead person,
Dr. Smith seconded the motion. In the discussion that followed, Dr. Stockburger expressed
concern that at the last linkages there wasn’t enough time for all attendees to express their
opinion. The motion carried unanimously.
Responsibility to Report

School Board Minutes
November 6, 2012
Page 6 of 6
Dr. Smith wanted to remind Board members of their legal responsibility to report illegal
activities to authorities, such as the superintendent or the resource officer.
CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Camille Hackler assessed the meeting. Her overall assessment was good.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:25 p.m.

