BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 28, 2012
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session June 28, 2012 in the Board
Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
Roll Call
Present: Directors Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Ken Gass, President Kelly Bashaw,
Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry. Scott Stockburger was absent.
Executive Session
At 6:30 p.m., President Kelly Bashaw called the regular meeting to order and adjourned to
executive session to review the performance of a public employee.
At 7:05 p.m. President Kelly Bashaw reconvened the regular meeting.

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
Audience
Nora Jagielo, a Western Washington University student and currently an intern with the
Whatcom Sheriff’s Office, addressed the Board about her interest in developing a 5th grade
curriculum in emergency preparedness. After developing and presenting the curriculum to
students, she proposed presenting it to the school board to request integration into the regular
curriculum.
Jack Petree addressed the Board regarding Whatcom County’s intent to reconvey timber land to
the Washington State Department of Natural Resources. He expressed concern that Bellingham
School District had not contacted the County about potential revenue loss.
Henry Jones felt the district is not teaching basic science and there should be more focus on
challenging students in science.
School Board Directors’ Reports
Dr. Ken Gass met with Mayor Kelli Linville to discuss talking points for the legislative meeting.
On June 27, four Board members and Superintendent Baker joined other superintendents and
school board directors from Whatcom County in sharing their concerns with legislators from the

School Board Minutes
June 28, 2 2012
Page 2 of 5
40th and 42nd legislative districts. Dr. Gass also joined Steve Smith and district staff in reviewing
features of BoardDocs, later having a business lunch with Dr. Smith and Dr. Baker. Dr. Gass
also participated in the graduation at Squalicum High School.
Camille Hackler participated in the graduation at Bellingham High School and commented it was
exciting to be part of such a special moment in the lives of students and their family. She also
attended Options High School graduation, joined Dr. Baker and President Bashaw for a breakfast
meeting. Director Hackler attended the 8th grade tea at Shuksan Middle School and joined other
Board members for the meeting with legislators. She commented that she left with a better idea
of what the legislators’ job entails and the hard work they do.
Steve Smith attended the Technology Alliance Group lunch with Greg Baker and Kelly Bashaw
on June 15. He participated in the Bellingham High School graduation and thanked Ms. Bashaw
for substituting for him at the Sehome High School graduation. Dr. Smith attended Options High
School graduation and the legislative meeting on June 27. He met with district staff and Dr. Gass
in an online meeting to review BoardDocs, followed by lunch with Dr. Baker and Dr. Gass.
Kelly Bashaw attended graduations at Sehome and Squalicum high schools. She also met with
Dr. Baker and Director Hackler for a breakfast meeting. Ms. Bashaw joined other Whatcom
County school board directors for the meeting with legislators and expressed appreciation to Ken
Gass for his work in organizing the meeting. She attended the Technology Alliance Group lunch
with Dr. Smith and Dr. Baker.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Baker reported a successful last day of school. Most of the teaching staff have left for
summer break with a few finishing up committee work. Administrators participated in a staff
retreat June 27, focusing on the district strategic plan.
On June 25 and 26, Dr. Baker and a team participated in the WASA/AWSP Summer Conference
in Spokane, Washington. The main theme of the conference focused on the principal/teacher
evaluation process. This will be work the district will focus on this year.
Dr. Baker has shared copies of the book “Leadership on the Line” with administrators.
Additional copies are available for the Board.
The district is in the process of converting the student information system from Zangle to
WesPac (Skyward). Training on the new system is scheduled for August. The new system is
used by over 200 school districts in the state.
Dr. Baker asked Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable to share information about the
PreKindergarten program. Mr. Venable reported that four schools would have developmental
preK programs—Northern Heights, Happy Valley and Geneva elementary schools. Sunnyland
will also have a developmental preK program that will include Whatcom Cooperative Program.
Opportunity Council will operate a Head Start preK program at Alderwood (bilingual program),
Carl Cozier, and Roosevelt elementary schools. Lakeside Cooperative Preschool will operate a

School Board Minutes
June 28, 2 2012
Page 3 of 5
preK program at Silver Beach. It is felt these decisions successfully respond to concerns about
safety, integration with other children and families. Prior to making these decisions, Mr. Venable
met with parents and staff and received positive response to these location changes.
Transportation is still being planned.
Dr. Baker reported that work is starting on a Facilities Planning Task Force. He reviewed
components of the task force and asked for feedback from the Board. It is anticipated that the
Task Force will receive information from a professional demographer as well as a facilities
expert who will assess all district facilities.
Superintendent Baker expressed his appreciation to the executive team for their hard work over
the last year.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion carried
unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of June 14, 2012 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, investment, June 15, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, June 22, 2012

$190,000.00
($362,500.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, June 15, 2012

($356,100.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, June 15, 2012
WCIP, investment, June 22, 2012

$13,000.00
$7,300.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, investment, June 15, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, June 22, 2012

$9,595.00
($54,750.00)

Contracts/Agreements
a) Agreement between the Bellingham Public School Foundation and Bellingham Public
Schools for 2012–2013.
Student Trips
a) Bellingham High School Dance Team to attend the Elite Dance Camp in Bellevue,
Washington, July 6–10, 2012. Travel expenses will be covered by fundraising.

School Board Minutes
June 28, 2 2012
Page 4 of 5
b) Bellingham High School Dance Team to attend the Northwest Dance Company Summer
Camp in Kent, Washington, July 19–21, 2012. Travel expenses will be covered by
fundraising.
c) Lowell Elementary School fifth graders to attend Mountain School, October 17–19, 2012.
Funds will be paid by student families and from PTA scholarships.
d) Squalicum High School Wrestling Team to attend the Washington Intensive Wrestling
Camp in Nine Mile Falls, Washington, July 8–14, 2012. The camp will be funded
through individual families and the Wrestling Booster Club.
e) Squalicum High School Band Members to attend the Leadership Band Camp in
Eatonville, Washington, June 26–28, 2012. The camp will be funded through a
combination of ASB funds and student fundraising. This request is after the fact.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Nancy Barga to provide administrative services for two summer school programs,
Seniors Only Summer Program and Bellingham Virtual Learning High School Program.
b) Maria Griggs to provide administrative services for the 2012 summer school program at
Carl Cozier and Sunnyland elementary schools.
c) Gabrielle Arness to provide viola and cello coaching at Bellingham High School.
d) Genevieve Cohn to provide costume design and construction for the Bellingham High
School spring play.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations, as submitted.

ACTION ITEMS
Resolution 7-12, Fixing and Adopting the Budget 2012–2013
Ken Gass moved and Camille Hackler seconded approval of Resolution 7-12, Fixing and
Adopting the Budget for Bellingham School District #501 for 2012–2013. The Board expressed
appreciation for the new section of the budget which includes details on each department’s
budget. The motion carried unanimously.

POLICY GOVERNANCE MONITORING REPORTS
Monitoring Report for EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
Superintendent Greg Baker presented a monitoring report on EL-1, Expectations of
Superintendent. The Board will respond to this Monitoring Report at the July 19, 2012 Board
Meeting.
Monitoring Report for EL-18, Mandatory Policies
Superintendent Greg Baker presented a monitoring report on EL-18, Mandatory Policies. The
Board will respond to this Monitoring Report at the July 19, 2012 Board Meeting. Dr. Baker
reported that staff is reviewing options on how to bring all administrative policies up to date and
maintain them.

School Board Minutes
June 28, 2 2012
Page 5 of 5
BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING REPORTS
EL-2, Organizational Continuity and Executive Succession
In keeping with Policy Governance, the Board reviewed the Monitoring Report presented at the
June 14, 2012 School Board meeting on EL-2, Organizational Continuity and Executive
Succession. The Board concurred that the Superintendent is In Compliance. The Board discussed
possible modifications to the wording of the policy and Director Steve Smith will draft a revised
policy for the Board’s consideration.
Ends 3, Life and Learning Skills, and Ends 4, Personal Attributes
The Board discussed Policy Governance policies Ends 3, Life and Learning Skills, and Ends 4,
Personal Attributes, for possible wording changes and suggested combining the two into one.
Discussion focused on whether these two Ends and The Bellingham Promise should be more
closely aligned. Director Steve Smith will draft a revised policy and submit to the Board for
further discussion and approval.
Executive Limitations 9, Facilities Program, and Executive Limitation 10, Asset Protection
The Board discussed Policy Governance policies Executive Limitation 9, Facilities Program, and
Executive Limitation 10, Asset Protection, for possible wording changes and suggested
combining the two into one. Director Steve Smith will draft a revised policy and submit to the
Board for further discussion and approval.

NEW BUSINESS
Dr. Gass requested more information regarding the concern expressed earlier about the
reconveyance of forest land. Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan explained timber funds are
paid to school districts based on the amount of the district’s debt and assessed value. Mr. Cowan
will verify the amount that the district would be eligible to receive.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Steve Smith assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was good.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:50 p.m.

