BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 9, 2012
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session August 9, 2012 in the Board
Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
At 6 p.m. President Kelly Bashaw called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker and
recorder Nancy Merry. Director Scott Stockburger was absent.
REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
Audience
Henry Jones addressed the Board to encourage more math and science education for students and
better professional development for math teachers.
Stephanie Twiford addressed the Board as a director of the Birchwood Neighborhood
Association. She encouraged the district to try to reach more people living in the Birchwood
neighborhood. She felt there are a lot of her neighbors who do not know about the changes
coming to Birchwood Elementary School. She also asked the district to encourage The
Bellingham Herald to write an article about the school.
April Barker, also a member of the Birchwood Neighborhood Association Board, thanked the
Board and district for the quick response to her questions on the Listening Post. She felt the
Listening Post is a very effective tool and she appreciated getting her questions answered by
Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan so quickly.
School Board Directors’ Reports
Ken Gass participated in a Washington State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) video
conference. He also met with a resident from the Lake Samish area who would like to establish a
procedure with the district to allow senior citizens to ride the school bus.
Steve Smith had a telephone conference with Dave Adkins, BoardDocs, on July 23 to discuss
how their program might be modified to work with Policy Governance. Mr. Adkins indicated he
would discuss with WSSDA since the district contract is with WSSDA. He also indicated he

School Board Minutes
August 9, 2012
Page 2 of 5
would share our needs with their development department to work on modifications. Mr. Smith
also met with Superintendent Baker to review modifications to Policy Governance Executive
Limitation 2.1.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Greg Baker introduced Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan, Finance and
Operations. Mr. Cowan introduced Kelli Smith and Zach Ham, Dykeman Architects, who shared
schematic design concepts and initial recommendations for Birchwood Elementary School. The
district and architectural team have continued to meet throughout the process with the
Birchwood Neighborhood Association to obtain feedback and share conceptual designs of the
school. Mr. Cowan thanked Ms. Smith and Mr. Ham and noted that Dykeman Architects have
incorporated many of the elements the neighbors requested into the design.
Dr. Baker announced that the district has applied for and will receive a grant that will help
administrators, teachers and principals build a collaborative framework system. A selection
process will be established for individuals who want to join this work.
The district is gearing up for the start of the school year. Dr. Baker announced that Rob McElroy
has been named executive administrator on special assignment. The executive team was in
retreat on August 8 to discuss a variety of topics. All administrators will be back to work on
August 13 with professional development scheduled. Orientation for new teachers is scheduled
for August 28. The board will receive information on how they can help welcome the teachers.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Ken Gass moved and Camille Hackler seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of July 19, 2012 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, July 20, 2012
WCIP, investment, July 31, 2012

($580,000.00)
$155,000.00

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, investment, July 20, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, July 31, 2012

$51,350.00
($53,685.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, July 20, 2012
WCIP, investment, July 31, 2012

$4,000.00
$6,800.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, July 20, 2012

($14,955.00)

School Board Minutes
August 9, 2012
Page 3 of 5

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, July 2012
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.
Surplus
Action on surplus of 1988 Thomas School Bus; 1986 Thomas School Bus; and 1983 Crown
School Bus, as submitted.
Student Trips
a) Middle school students from all four middle schools to attend the CISPUS Leadership
Camp in Randall, Washington, August 5-8, 2012. Expenses for the trip will be paid by
student body funds.
Personal Services Contracts
a) Linda Miller to serve as coordination and administration of the Career and Technical
Education Program on an as needed, July 2012–August 2013.
b) Amberjoy Hausercoble to serve as sign language interpreter at Sehome High School on
an as-needed basis, August 2012–June 2013.
c) Maria Griggs to serve as Special Education Extended School Year Administrator, June
through august 2012.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations, as submitted.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Ends 1, Strategic Mission
At the July 19, 2012 School Board meeting, the Board reviewed proposed revisions to Ends 1,
Strategic Mission, to be more reflective of The Bellingham Promise. Suggested revisions were
discussed further. Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded the motion to approve the
revisions, as submitted. The motion carried unanimously.
Ends 2, Academic Achievement
At the July 19, 2012 School Board meeting, the Board reviewed proposed revisions to Ends 2,
Academic Achievement, to be more reflective of The Bellingham Promise. Suggested revisions
were discussed further. Ken Gass moved and Steve Smith Gass seconded the motion to approve
the revisions, as submitted. The motion carried unanimously.
Ends 2.1 Academic Competence
At the July 19, 2012 School Board meeting, the Board reviewed proposed revisions to Ends 2,
Academic Achievement, and 2.1 Academic Competence, to be more reflective of The
Bellingham Promise. Additional revisions were suggested. Director Steve Smith will draft a

School Board Minutes
August 9, 2012
Page 4 of 5
revised Ends 2.1 and forward to Dr. Baker and President Bashaw for board discussion at the
August 23 board retreat.
Ends 3, Life and Learning Skills
At the July 19, 2012 School Board meeting, the Board reviewed proposed revisions to Ends 3,
Life and Learning Skills, to be more reflective of The Bellingham Promise. The Board discussed
the suggested revisions, which would combine Ends 3, Life and Learning Skills, and Ends 4,
Personal Attributes and Ethics, into one which would be titled as Ends 3, Skills and Attributes.
Additional revisions were suggested. Director Ken Gass will refine the suggestions and the board
will discuss at the August 23, 2012 board retreat.
Ends 4, Personal Attributes and Ethics
At the July 19, 2012 School Board meeting, the Board reviewed proposed revisions to Ends 4,
Personal Attributes and Ethics, to be more reflective of The Bellingham Promise. The Board
discussed the suggested revisions, which would combine Ends 3, Life and Learning Skills, and
Ends 4, Personal Attributes and Ethics, into one which would be titled as Ends 3, Skills and
Attributes. Additional revisions were suggested. Director Ken Gass will refine the suggestions
and the board will discuss at the August 23, 2012 board retreat.
Governance Policy 1, Governance Commitment and Beliefs
At the July 19, 2012 School Board meeting, the Board reviewed proposed revisions to
Governance Policy 1, Governance Commitment and Beliefs, to be more reflective of The
Bellingham Promise. Additional revisions were suggested and discussed. Director Camille
Hackler will refine the suggestions and the board will discuss at the August 23, 2012 board
retreat.
Executive Limitation 1, Expectations of Superintendent
At the June 28, 2012 School Board meeting, the Board heard the monitoring report on Executive
Limitation 2, Expectations of Superintendent. At the July 19, 2012 school board meeting, the
Board concurred that the superintendent was in compliance.
The Board reviewed proposed revisions to Executive Limitation 1, Expectations of
Superintendent, for possible wording changes, including the possibility of combining EL-1 with
EL-18, Mandatory Policies. Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded the motion to approve
combining EL-1 with EL-18 as submitted, with the minor modification to remove the third
“shall” in the introductory paragraph. The motion carried unanimously.
Executive Limitation 18, Mandatory Policies
At the June 28, 2012 School Board meeting, the Board heard the monitoring report on Executive
Limitation 18, Mandatory Policies. At the July 19, 2012 school board meeting, the Board
concurred that the superintendent working towards compliance.
The Board reviewed proposed revisions to Executive Limitation 18, Mandatory Policies, for
possible wording changes, including the possibility of combining EL-18 with EL-1, Expectations
of Superintendent. Steve Smith moved and Ken Gass seconded the motion to approve combining

School Board Minutes
August 9, 2012
Page 5 of 5
EL-1 with EL-18 as submitted, with the minor modification to remove the third “shall” in the
introductory paragraph. The motion carried unanimously.

NEW BUSINESS
The board discussed the need to refine administrative policy 1450, Absence of a Board Member,
to better define what constitutes a “regular” board meeting. Dr. Baker will ask for a legal opinion
of the term and the board will discuss further at the board retreat on August 23.
The National School Board Association Annual Conference will be held in San Diego, California
beginning April 13, 2013. At the retreat, the board will discuss which members will represent the
district at the conference.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Steve Smith assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was good.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:30 p.m.

