Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
1/12/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
- January is School Board Recognition Month! Thank you to the Lynden School District board members for selflessly giving their time
and energy in support of high-quality public schooling for our youth. Lynden School District board members include CJ Costanti, David
Vis, Cindy Petersen, Ken Owsley, and Tonya Hickman.
- A huge thank you to our facilities and maintenance crew for their hard work during the ice storm to keep our buildings safe and
accessible. Our hardworking crew includes Kevin Burke, Duane Vis, Cecil Martin, Dawn Duncan, Paul Bonsen, and John Vanleperen.
- Lynden Middle School students came together to donate nearly 3,000 items of food to Project Hope.
- Lynden High School football captains and seniors visited Lynden Middle School to share about the importance of engaging in school
and developing good study habits , and to celebrate their recent state championship!
- Family Community Services just wrapped up their holiday season! Through their coordination, and the generosity of our community
and staff, they were able to give 62 Thanksgiving meals to families this year! Donations from Grace Baptist Church, Petro Gas and
Windermere also helped provide food cards, food baskets, and vouchers for a turkey/ham to many more families.
They were also able to provide holiday gifts for 161 families, totaling 416 children! Donors from Lynden School District and community
organizations including BP, United Methodist Church, North County Christ the King, Project Santa, Community Toy Store, Toys 4 Tots,
Hope Lutheran Church, J.G. and friends, and J & D B. helped provide gifts, food boxes and gift cards to families as well.

3. Meeting Minutes
Meeting Minutes- December 8, 2022

4. Annual Organizational Meeting
Annual Organizational Meeting

5. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- December 16, 2022

(Action)

Personnel Recommendations 01.12.23
Resolution #01-23-City of Lynden Right of Way Grant, Slope Easement and Temporary Construction Easement
City of Lynden- Letter of Support
City of Lynden- Dedication Agreement
City of Lynden- Temporary Construction Agreement
City of Lynden- Transportation Impact Fee Credit Agreement

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Board Workshop
Discuss Superintendent Evaluation Framework and Process
WSSDA- Superintendent Framework
Superintendent Evaluation- DRAFT

9. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 5011- Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited

b. Continued Readings
Policy 4218- Language Access
Policy 5001- Hiring of Retired School Employees

10. Information from Board Members
11. Adjourn Meeting

