Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
10/26/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
A group of Lynden Middle Schools students attended the Fall Leadership Days Conference on October 6th at Nooksack Middle
School where they got the chance to meet student leaders from the other schools and plan for ways to promote belonging and
community.
Lynden High School hosted its 13th annual College & Career Fair. Students from Lynden and neighboring high schools enjoyed
an introduction to a variety of future possibilities from over 55 representatives from various post-secondary options including
4-year private and public colleges, community colleges, technical colleges, military services, local public safety offices,
apprenticeships, and multiple local businesses.
7th Grade students at Lynden Middle School explored engineering by making rockets!
First graders at Isom Elementary attended their first "in house" field trip as an extension of a CKLA knowledge unit on the
digestive system. They toured their school building presented as a human body. The use of interactive lessons created an
exceptional learning experience for students.
Athletes from Lynden High School took their annual fall trip to the three elementary schools to spend time with students
during lunch and recess. The event serves as a way to connect grades across Lynden Schools.
The 2023 Agape Newsletter highlighted their work in Whatcom County over the summer which included the distribution of
food to over 600 families on a weekly basis. Lynden Schools is proud to partner with Agape Food Bank to provide a distribution
site for 11 weeks during the summer.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 10.12.23
Meeting Minutes- 10.13.23

4. Consent Agenda
AP Payroll- October 16, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 10.26.2023

(Action)

23-24 Lynden SD Running Start Agreement

5. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 5310- Compensation
Policy 6215- Expense Claim Certification and Approval
Policy 6605- Student Safety- Walking, Biking, and Riding Buses

b. Second Readings
Policy 3520- Student Fees, Fines, and Charges
Policy 6530- Insurance
Policy 6959- Acceptance of Completed Project

8. Information from Board Members
9. Adjourn Meeting

