Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
10/12/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Nine high schoolers from Lynden Academy participated in the homecoming dance at Lynden High School. There is an
intentional effort being made by Lynden Academy Student Leadership to ensure that all students are made aware of activities
happening at the high school so that Lynden Academy students have the option to participate.
Lynden Middle School celebrated the opening of their Lion Pride store. Students are able to purchase a variety of items and
privileges with their Lion Pride tickets that can be earned during the school day.
October is National Principals Month. Lynden School District is blessed with 9 principals who are exceptional leaders. Their
tireless efforts have a positive impact on our school community and I am grateful to be serving alongside them all.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 09.28.23

4. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- September 29, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 10.12.2023
Interagency Agreement- College in the High School
Interlocal Agreement- Meridian SD- PT

5. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning

(Action)

Early Learning Presentation 10.12.23

c. Finance and Operations

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 1610- Conflicts of Interest
Policy 3520- Student Fees, Fines, and Charges
Policy 6217- Electronic Funds Transfer
Policy 6530- Insurance
Policy 6550- Capitalization Threshold for Leases and Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements
Policy 6959- Acceptance of Completed Project

b. Second Readings
Policy 3207- Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation, and Bullying of Students
Policy 6212- Charge Cards
Policy 6220- Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements

8. Board Workshop
EP&O Levy Renewal- discussion

9. Action Items
Resolution #12-23- EP & O Levy Renewal
Inspire Development Centers- Lease Amendment
Resolution #11-23- Private Purpose Trust Fund, Closure to General Fund.pdf

10. Information from Board Members
WSSDA Positions

11. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

