Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
9/28/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
The Lynden Alumni Association has selected Grant Brickbealer as the 2023 Lynden Alumni of the Year! Grant is a 2004 graduate
of Lynden High School and continues to be very involved with school activities within the community. This a well deserved
recognition and we are thrilled to honor him!
Our Kindergarten and Transition to Kindergarten programs are now up and running full time. Teachers and students are
settling into their new routines for the school year. We are serving 56 four and five year olds.
Lynden Academy's Leadership Class students identified a need to communicate directly with the Lynden Academy high school
students about school and district events. They proposed an Instagram page featuring LA activities and reposts of the LHS
events that LA students can participate in. With the help of staff, their first posts went up this week and they're looking
forward to participating in next week's homecoming activities.
Fisher Elementary coordinated with their PTA to purchase and install cement picnic tables with seats for the playground to
replace their failing "buddy bench". Students use this space to sit and read their book or talk with friends during recess, and
parents can use it to sit and watch their kids play on the playground during the weekends.
All schools have hosted Back to School Nights and had a great time welcoming families as they visited classrooms and
teachers!
The first session of the 23/24 Superintendent Series took place on September 18th. There were 10 community members who
attended the town hall style meeting which was focused on the district's strategic priorities.
Lynden Academy's K-5 students will visit Hovander Homestead Park for their first field trip of the year. They have plans to tour
Tennant Lake, participate in a fall scavenger hunt, and enjoy lunch together.
Invitations have been sent out to the community to serve on the newly created 23/24 Safety & Security Task Force. The
meetings will be focused on safe and secure learning environments for students and will be co-facilitated by Superintendent
VanderYacht, Lynden parent and former law enforcment officer Clark Bourgault, and Lynden parent and Lynden Police Officer
Tanner Holland.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 09.14.23

4. Consent Agenda

(Action)

Personnel Recommendations- 09.28.23
AP/Payroll- September 15, 2023
Interlocal Agreements- Teacher of the Visually Impaired

5. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
Transitional Bilingual Instructional Program

c. Finance and Operations
Annual Policy Reports- 09.28.23

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 3207- Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation and Bullying of Students
Policy 6212- Charge Cards
Policy 6220- Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements

b. Second Readings
Policy 5051- Hiring of District Administrators

8. Action Items
Resolution #10-23- General Obligation Bond
Approval of the 23/24 Transitional Bilingual Instructional Program Grant
Interlocal Agreement- Whatcom County- Behavioral Health
Interlocal Agreement- Meridian School District- Transportation

(Action)

Union Contract Ratification

9. Information from Board Members
Summary of WSSDA General Assembly

10. Adjourn Meeting

