Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
3/23/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Fisher Elementary and Isom Elementary kicked off their Read-a-Thon fundraiser in conjunction with National Reading Month!
Both schools have had several activities throughout the month to celebrate!
Lynden High School had a successful run of their musical Fiddler on the Roof . Students and staff worked very hard to put on a
terrific performance!
Lynden Academy hosted a game night for middle school and high school students. The fifty students who participated played
board games, ate snacks, and had time to connect with staff and each other.
Girls and Boys high school basketball teams competed in the state tournament with the boys team bringing home the coveted
Gold Ball! Congratulations to our players, coaches, LHS band, and LHS cheer. And special thanks to our transportation
department and the many volunteer chaperones who made sure our students were safe, fed and got to where they needed to
be.
Congratulations to the LHS Dance Team! They placed 2nd in their category at the district competition and are heading to state
on March 24th in Yakima!
Hundreds of parents and families enjoyed an outstanding Band, Choir and Glee Club concert earlier this month at Lynden
Middle School. Way to go, Lions!
Lynden Middle School's Parent Advisory & Action Committee (PAAC) met in March and learned about the elective programs at
LMS. The next meeting will be April 18th, and the group will be learning about the Highly Capable program at LMS. As always,
PAAC is open to all LMS parents.
Spring Sports at Lynden High School is off to a great start! There are over 130 students signed up for track.
Congratulations to Lynden High School for receiving renewal of state accreditation with the Association of Educational Service
Districts (AESD). They commended LHS for their work to ensure 9th grade success with activities such as Freshman Transition
and Freshman Blitz.
Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA) qualified for state and will be headed there soon!
Lynden High School hosted a well-attended Future Freshman night that included a tour of the high school for incoming 9th
graders and their families. Information was provided on clubs, activities, and registering for classes.
Congrats to our HOSA EMS (Health Occupation Students of America) students who took 1st place in the state competition!

3. Committee Assignments
4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 02.23.23

5. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP/Payroll- February 28, 2023
AP/Payroll- March 15, 2023
Personnel Recommendations 03.09.23
Personnel Recommendations- 03.23.23
Out of Endorsement- March 23 2023
Donations 03.09.23

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
Lynden Academy & Elementary- School Improvement Plans

c. Finance and Operations
Grant Overview 2022/2023
Finance Report- Feb 2023

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Action Items

(Action)

Northwest Career & Technology Academy
Dairy Bids
Resolution #01-23- General Fund & Capital Projects Transfer to Debt Service Fund

9. Policy
a. First Readings
b. Second Readings
Policy 2411- High School Equivalency Certificate

10. Board Workshop
Board Workshop 03.23.23

11. Information from Board Members
12. Adjourn Meeting

