Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
6/8/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Fisher 3rd graders took a field trip to the Whatcom Museum to experience up close Native American tradition and culture
which correlates with their CKLA learning that took place this year. They wrapped up the trip with a visit to the Lynden City
Park to play in our community resource. During their walk back to school, they applied their knowledge of using maps that
they learned at the beginning of the year!
Fisher 5th graders were tasked with using the Engineering Design Process to craft and design a project that would keep their
eggs safe after being dropped from the second story. Many students were able to complete the challenge and came out with
solid eggs and big smiles.
Lynden Middle School students and families enjoyed an amazing art show as well as a Glee Club performance on May 23rd.
Special thanks to Mrs. Parkin and Mrs.White for their collaboration on this event.
Bernice Vossbeck's 3rd graders took a walking field trip exploring the community of Lynden. They visited the fire station, post
office, library, and the Lynden City Park.
Congrats to Lynden High School track athletes who placed at the 2A State Championships. Porter Wilhite (high jump), Jared
McCrory (pole vault) and Faith VanBrocklin (30-meter hurdles) won state titles! The Lynden boys earned 2nd place as a team.
Other second place finishes included Troy Petz (long jump and high jump) and the relay teams of the girls 4x100, the girls
4x400 and the boys 4x400.
Congrats to Lynden High School Tennis' Adia Newcomb and Kalanie Newcomb. The doubles team earned third place in the 2A
State Tournament. T
Congrats to Lynden Baseball for capturing 2nd place in the 2A State Tournament.
Lynden High School hosted a successful Multlicultural Night on May 25th. A variety of families and students of varying cultures
shared their pride in their own heritage and celebrated with others. The student-led event invited the community to enjoy
traditional foods cooked by families and donated by local restaurants, music, dance, fashion and presentations.

3. Lynden/Ferndale Masonic Lodge Educator of the Year Award
Lynden/Ferndale Masonic Lodge Educator of the Year Award

4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes 05.25.2023

5. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP-Payroll May 31, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 06.08.2023
Overnight Trip Request- FFA
Overnight Trip Requests- Athletics
Donations 06.08.2023

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
- Secondary Science

c. Finance and Operations

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Policy
a. First Readings
3245- Students & Telecommunication Devices

9. Action Items
Alternative Learning Experience (ALE) Approval

10. Information from Board Members
11. Adjourn Meeting
12. Closed Session
- Collective Bargaining Update

(Action)

