Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
12/14/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Oaths of Office
Oath of Office- Newly Elected Board Directors
Position No. 1- Khushdip Brar
Position No. 3- Jim Verburg
Position No. 5- Ken Owsley

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 11.09.23

4. Annual Organizational Meeting
Annual Organizational Meeting

5. Good News
The Final Mile event was held last month and was a huge success! Students from all three elementary schools can participate
in a marathon over the course of the fall season at their own school. They then gather to run their "final mile" together at the
high school where they receive their medal and celebrate with friends and family!
Lynden Academy K-5 students enjoyed their first "Staycation" during an in-house field trip afternoon consisting of fall themed
crafts, games, and snacks. Lynden Academy's campus days are rigorously academic, so these planned events are essential and
valuable for community building.
Lynden Middle School band and choir concerts were well attended and the students gave wonderful performances!
Fisher Elementary has a new addition in their building! Their new aquarium will be housed in the main entrance of the school
and will be part of the 4th grade science curriculum in partnership with the Nooksack Salmon Enhancement Association. The
whole school will be able to observe the work of the 4th graders each year with salmon eggs arriving in February and a release
in March.
Lynden Academy and the elementary schools all completed parent/teacher conferences in November making great
connections with their families.
The highly capable coordinators at Lynden Middle School have started a monthly program newsletter filled with resources and
classroom highlights for their families.
Lynden Middle School's band had a great time performing at the Lynden Senior Center! The audience was so appreciative and

supportive of the students as they played!

6. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP Payroll- Nov 15, 2023
AP Payroll- Nov 30, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 12.14.2023

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include first readings of Policy 2004Performance Improvement Goals, Policy 2090- Program Evaluation, and Policy 2190- Highly Capable Programs. Speakers will be
recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer
their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the
Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant,
or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals
may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session
may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the
superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
School Improvement Plan Presentations- Lynden Academy, Fisher Elementary, & Bernice Vossbeck Elementary
Curriculum Adoption and Maintenance Presentation
Teaching & Learning Report- 12.14.23

c. Finance and Operations
2024.2025 Budget Calendar Development

9. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 2004- Performance Improvement Goals
Policy 2090- Program Evaluation
Policy 2190- Highly Capable Programs

10. Action Items
11. Information from Board Members
Board Retreat- discussion on dates

12. Board Workshop
13. Executive Session
Discussion regarding litigation pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(i).
Executive Session- 12.14.23

14. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

