Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
5/25/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
- Isom Elementary STEAM students have been knee deep in the design and engineering process as they worked to create their own
small towns which all included places to live, food to grow & eat, clean water sources, transportation, energy sources, and
hospital/schools. Looks like we have some future engineers, architects, and city planners in our midst!
- Lynden Academy students have enjoyed several fun activities in the last few weeks including a Board Game Night for middle and high
schoolers, a Movie Night for elementary students, and an all-grade Share Fair where they could show off their talents. They will be
finishing off the school year with a fun-filled Field Day.
- LHS students Charlotte Martin, Aislinn Nilsen, Alicia Sanchez, and Mya VanderYacht were recognized by the Whatcom American
Association of University Women during an awards reception on May 13th.
- Lynden High School FFA students competed at the state convention in Kennewick. Six teams placed in the top seven in the state, led
by the state champion Agriculture Communications team.
- Elementary 4th graders enjoyed their annual field trip to Padilla Bay for some hands-on learning.
- Lynden High School students Mason Namminga and Cooper Graddon received a Student Leadership Award during the WASA Regional
Awards for their work in elevating the FBLA program and the resulting successes of their efforts.
- Lynden Middle School just wrapped up their production of "Crumpled Classics" . It was a great show and fun was had by all!
- The spring sports seasons at LHS are nearing conclusion with participation numbers at an all-time high. Boys soccer experienced a
heartbreaking playoff loss while many of our golf, track and tennis athletes also had their seasons end. A tennis doubles team won the
district title and will be competing in the State competition, as will a handful of track athletes, a pair of golfers, and the boys baseball
and girls fastpitch teams.
- A career fair held at the Main Street Campus invited 5th and 7th graders to learn about local careers from community businesses.

3. Meeting Minutes
Meeting Minutes- 05.11.2023

(Action)

4. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP/Payroll- May 15, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 05.25.23

5. Reports
a. Superintendent
- Middle School & Elementary School Counseling
- Elementary PTA Presentation
- Facilities Update
- 23/24 Budget Development
Overview of Superintendent's Report

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
Financial Report- April 2023

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Policy
a. First Readings
b. Second Readings
Policy 5254- Staff Expression
Policy 6815- Advertising on District Property

8. Action Items
9. Information from Board Members
10. Adjourn Meeting
11. Closed Session
Collective Bargaining Update

(Action)

