Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
3/9/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Lynden Academy enjoyed a Valentine's Staycation for elementary students in February. Parents and staff ran a fun K-5
educational field trip in the building with art lessons, games and snacks with time to connect with each other.
Fisher Elementary is celebrating National Reading Month with several activities including a character parade, a book cover
contest, a visit from Thing 1 and Thing 2, a book fair, a visit from LHS athletes who will read to the students, and an assembly
on March 31st to end the celebration! They are also holding their Read-a-Thon fundraiser from March 8th - 22nd.
Isom Elementary had a chance to truly experience their Character Strong trait for February- COOPERATION. On February 22nd,
students arrived to find there was no power in the building! The repair by PSE took longer than expected, so teachers and staff
cooperated to get battery-operated lights in the hallways, bathroom, and other dark spaces. They also had some amazing
cooperation from parent volunteers who stayed to help until the power came back on!
Lynden Academy hosted a game night for middle school and high school students. The fifty students who participated ate
snacks, connected with staff members and each other, and played board games.
Lynden High School had a successful opening of their musical Fiddler on the Roof last weekend. The show will run one more
weekend on March 11th and 12th.
Girls and Boys high school basketball teams competed in the state tournament last weekend with the boys team bringing
home the coveted Gold Ball!. Many members of the community made the trip to Yakima to support our teams. Special thanks
to Athletic Director, Mike McKee and Administrative Assistant, Alicia Blankers for the countless hours they put in to make this
a successful trip for our students. Congratulations also go out to our band led by Trevor Galligan and our cheer team led
by Kellee Wallace and Catherine Douglas. Special thanks to our transportation department led by Shane Stanfill , Coach Roper,
Coach Wolffis and their coaching staff, and the many volunteer chaperones who show up and make sure our students are
safe, fed and get to where they need to be..

3. Committee Assignments
4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 02.23.23

5. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- February 28, 2023
Personnel Recommendations 03.09.23
Donations 03.09.23

(Action)

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
Lynden Academy- School Improvement Plan (SIP) and Program Review

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
Grant Overview 2022/2023

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Action Items

(Action)

Northwest Career & Technology Academy
Dairy Bids
Resolution #01-23

9. Policy
a. First Readings
b. Second Readings
Policy 2411- High School Equivalency Certificate

10. Information from Board Members
11. Board Workshop
Board Workshop- Facilities 03.09.23

12. Adjourn Meeting

