Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
2/23/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Advisory Voting Protocol
Advisory Voting Protocol

3. Good News
The Lynden Noon Kiwanis recently donated over $400 worth of materials to the Isom STEAM program. Kiwanis member Kristie
Kornelis told STEAM teacher, Mrs. Sebastiani, that their "club is very excited to start connecting with (Lynden) elementary
STEAM teachers to support their classrooms.” The donation included PVC pipes and fittings, wrenches and tape measures,
paper plates, balloons, potting soil and more. Thank you, Kiwanis, we can't wait for Isom students to get to work!
Bernice Vossbeck kindergarten and transitional kindergarten classes partnered with Bedlington Farms for their CKLA unit on
farming. Bedlington Farms brought their tractor and potatoes to Vossbeck to work with our littles. Much fun was had by all!
Congratulations to Lynden Middle School Band Director, Mr. Winkler and the following band students for their superior ratings
(highest rating) at the San Juan Solo & Ensemble Festival: James Coates, Caleb Jones, Genesis Lara Felix, Conner Lebel, Sara
Yue & Belinda Esparza (duet), Naomi Putnam, Nicole Wazny, and Sara Yue (solo). In addition, Zoey Cooper and Elizabeth
Misanes received an excellent rating for their duet.
Bernice Vossbeck's Highly Capable robotics group has been experimenting with the engineering of a peanut butter and jelly
sandwich! Those were some yummy sandwiches!
The Extended Day program at Fisher Elementary started in January. Forty students who are multi-language learners arrive one
hour early 4 days per week to work on literacy and language skills. They are eager to learn and come with smiiles every
morning! The program will run through June with a field trip at the end to celebrate!
Bernice Vossbeck is half-way through their I Love To Read month and students and staff have made it halfway to their goal of
reading 1,500 book by Dr. Seuss's birthday!
Lynden Middle School hosted a Hispanic Family Information Night on February 16th. Over 50 families enjoyed light
refreshments, listened to a brief presentation from staff, and engaged with a variety of resources to support students and
learning. Special thanks to Melissa Valley and Terry Mata for their contributions for this event!

4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 02.09.23

5. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- February 15, 2023

(Action)

Personnel Recommendations- 02.23.23
Donations- 02.23.23

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
Northwest Career & Technical Academy

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
- Operations- Finance, Maintenance, Technology, Transportation
Finance Report- Jan 2023
Budget Overview Presentation

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 2411- High School Equivalency Certificate

9. Action Items
10. Board Workshop
Capital Facilities Planning

11. Information from Board Members
12. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

