Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
1/26/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
- Lynden School District is grateful to the Lynden Rotary Club's continued support of our school libraries. The Rotary Club recently
donated $750 worth of books that the district was able to handpick to help support our students!
- Thank you to agents from the Department of Homeland Security who recently presented information on cyber security to 3rd and 4th
graders at our elementary schools. The presentations were well received, and will be concluded with a community parent presentation
on February 8th at North County Christ the King.
- Be The One is celebrating its 10th anniversary! During our partnership with them, they have coordinated mentoring for over 350
students at Lynden High School and Lynden Middle School, and over 500 students in Whatcom County. We are looking forward to a
continued partnership with them as they pursue their mission to positively impact the lives of students.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Board Meeting Minutes- 01.12.23

4. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- December 30, 2022
AP/Payroll- January 13, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 01.26.23

5. Committee Assignments
Capital Facilities, Superintendent Evaluation, Communications, Teaching & Learning, Finance

6. Reports

(Action)

a. Superintendent
Strategic Priorities- 4 Areas of Focus

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
Finance Report- Dec 2022

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Adjourn Meeting to go into Work Session
9. Work Session
Capital Facilities Planning

