Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
11/9/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Lynden Middle School had over 160 students participate in their fall sports season. Special thanks goes out to the incredibly
dedicated coaching staff for a successful season!
All 3 elementary groups hosted successful events during the last few weeks of October. Fisher PTA hosted their Family Trunkor-Treat event , Vossbeck's PTA hosted a Mother-Son Light Up the Night event, and Isom's PTA hosted their annual MotherSon Hullabaloo! A great time was had by all!
LMS students enjoyed their first PBIS (Positive Behavior Interventions and Support) rewards last week. 7th and 8th graders
attended a dance and activity event that included creating artwork, gym activities, and a video game room while the 6th
graders headed to the Sportsplex in Bellingham. A special thank you to LMS leadership students for all of their work
organizing and decorating.
KGMI interviewed 3rd grade students at Lynden Academy about the football, and more specifically the Seattle Seahawks. The
interviews were included as part of their November 3rd broadcast.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 10.26.23

4. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- October 31, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 11.9.2023
Interdistrict Agreement with Bellingham SD- Teacher of Deaf & Hard of Hearing

5. Reports
a. Superintendent

(Action)

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
Finance Report- Sept 2023
22/23 Year End Finance Report

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Policy
a. Second Readings
Policy 5310- Compensation
Policy 6215- Expense Claim Certification and Approval

b. Third Readings
Policy 6959- Acceptance of Completed Project

8. Action Items
Approval of Pro/Con Committee Members

9. Information from Board Members
Student Board Representatives

10. Board Workshop
11. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

