Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
5/11/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
- State testing is underway at Lynden Middle School. Over the next month, students will participate in Math & English Language Arts
Smarter Balanced Assessments as well as the Comprehensive Assessment of Science. Special thanks to our testing coordinator, Wendy
Kramme, for her dedication and support in the testing process.
- Isom Elementary first graders just finished up their CKLA unit on Astronomy. They had a blast by celebrating with an Outer Space
Themed Party!
- Lynden Middle School Band and Glee Club performed for 4th and 5th grade classes at all 3 elementary schools on April 13th.
- Isom Elementary continued their spring music concerts on April 20th and had a great showing for their 2nd and 4th grade
performances.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 04.27.23

4. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- April 28, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 05.11.23

5. Reports
a. Superintendent
Overview of Superintendent's Report
Comprehensive School Counseling Program (CSCP)

(Action)

Family Community Services Presentation

b. Teaching and Learning
School Improvement Plan- Lynden Middle School

c. Finance and Operations

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 5254- Staff Expression
Policy 6815- Advertising on District Property

8. Action Items
Resolution #06-23- Reduced Educational Program
Resolution #07-23- Bank Accounts
Overnight Trip Requests

9. Work Session
Student Director Selection Process- 23/24

10. Information from Board Members
11. Adjourn Meeting
12. Closed Session
Collective Bargaining Planning

(Action)

