Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
1/25/2024 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
- Lynden Schools has a new Unified Sports basketball team! Unified Sports joins students with special needs with peers who play on
the same team. The ten players are coached by Marielle Face and Cabe VanderYacht. Grant Brickbealer serves as an assistant.
- Four of our schools have been randomly selected to administer the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP). Special
thanks to our tech coaches at each of these schools for their extra work with implementing and supporting the administration of the
NAEP.
- Isom Elementary has shifted their 5th grade lunch to coordinate with Kinder and TK lunches. Isom 5th graders participate as role
models as they support, encourage, and teach our younger learners in the cafeteria as well as out on the playground. They are also
building leadership skills for the future!
- Fisher Elementary began their Extended Day program last week. This is an opportunity for students who may need a bit of extra help
to receive support before school through learning activities prepared by staff.
- Special thanks to our grounds and maintenance staff as they navigate the impacts of winter weather. They have been working
tirelessly responding to the needs of each building.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes 01.11.24

4. Consent Agenda
AP/Payroll- January 15, 2024
Personnel Recommendations- 1.25.2024.pdf

5. Organization of the Board
Organization of the Board

6. Committee Assignments
Committee Assignments

7. Information from the audience

(Action)

Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
- First Reading of Policy 1400- Meeting Conduct, Order of Business, & Quorum
- Second Readings of Policy 5161- Civility in the Workplace and Policy 5010- Nondiscrimination
- Approval of Nondiscrimination in Hiring Plan
- Discussion about class action lawsuit regarding social media's affect on youth mental health
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Reports
a. Superintendent
- Capital Facilities Planning Presentation
Superintendent's Report

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
- Emergency Management & Safety Update
- Finance Report- Dec. 2023
Finance & Operations Report

9. Policy
a. Second Readings
Policy 5010- Nondiscrimination
Policy 5161- Civility in the Workplace

b. First Readings
Policy 1400- Meeting Conduct, Order of Business, and Quorum

10. Action Items
- Approval of Nondiscrimination Plan
- Class Action Lawsuit- Social Media
Action Items

11. Information from Board Members
- Board Retreat- reschedule

12. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

