Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
5/16/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Approval of Agenda
3. Good News
Lynden High School has announced their 2024 valedictorians. There are a record 15 students graduating with a 4.0 grade point
average this year! Congratulations to all!
The district hosted their annual career fair on the Main Street campus for all 5th and 7th graders. Eighteen local businesses,
agencies, and individuals shared about career opportunities, skills and schooling required for specific career fields, and what
they love most about their jobs.
Lynden Academy's leadership class has been focusing on supporting our community and is coordinating a donation drive for
Project Hope and New Way Ministries during the month of May.
Lynden Middle School has the largest applicant pool they have ever received for students who are wanting to participate in
the AVID program. This program is offered to 7th-12th grade students whose goals align with the school district's mission to
prepare students to be college, career, and citizenship ready.
Lynden High School administered over 200 AP exams this month. Students signed up for these classes in an effort to earn
college credits.
Vossbeck Elementary's physical education teacher, Michelle Wright, applied for and was awarded a Bowling Unit Grant from
Bowler's Ed. This unit was a fun addition to their PE classes for grades TK-5! Students have enjoyed learning about bowling and
cheering each other on!
Lynden Middle School's theater department is performing their spring musical, "Hot Rod" beginning tonight at 7:00pm. There
will be one more show tomorrow evening. Admission is free.
Buildings celebrated several staff appreciation days in the month of May including School Nurse Appreciation Day, School
Lunch Heroes Day, and Teacher Appreciation Week.
Lynden Middle School spring sports is coming to a close. Thanks to coaches Peter Bovenkamp, Grant Bonsen, Lynne Barrios,
Cabe VanderYacht, Amy Ohligschlager, Katelyn Dekoster, Clark Bourgault, and Isaiah White for helping to make a positive
experience for all students.
Vossbeck Elementary students participated in Bike To School Day on May 8th. They had 123 students ride their bikes to school
on a beautiful sunny morning!
Isom Elementary completed their spring bike safety unit for 4th and 5th graders during PE class. Students spent the first two
weeks practicing in a coned off portion of the parking lot, and then ventured onto city streets and neighborhoods during the
third week while practicing hand signals, right of way, and traffic navigation. The bikes were secured through a grant from the
Washington State Department of Transportation and are shared between the three elementary schools.
Lynden High School hosted study intervention groups called "Sunrise & Study" during the late start state testing schedule.
While the work originally focused on freshmen, they invited all other grades as well. Students made significant academic
progress with content specific educators there to support them!

Fisher Elementary is showing some great growth through their targeted interventionist program utilizing the University of
Florida Literacy Institute Intervention curriculum that is aligned with the science of reading and our new CKLA curriculum. All
grade levels exceeded the average number of expected growth by 150%-215%. These intervention groups included Tier II and
Tier III students.
Vossbeck Elementary's librarian, Mrs. Grewal, taught students about poetry and helped some of them enter the Young
American Poetry Digest's annual poetry contest. Thirty three students in grades 1-5 were selected as contest winners and had
their work published! Congratulations!
Vossbeck Elementary's STEAM teacher and the BVE PTA hosted their first Egg Drop. Students interested in this fun science
experiment had to fill out an application, submit it to Mrs. VanHulzen, and bring their egg baskets to BVE for an evening event.
Fifty students and their families arrived with creative egg basket designs and had fun watching them being dropped from high
up!
Lynden Middle School hosted an event for our Migrant Program on Saturday, May 4th. Dr. Veronica Velez spoke to students
during the morning session about resiliency and being well-educated- both within the context of individual cultures and as a
minority in the country. The afternoon session was aimed towards parents and Dr. Velez asked what they would like to see
happening in their children's schools. A lengthy discussion followed on their desire to see their students' cultural backgrounds
reflected in their school environments and the importance of promoting education at home.

4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 05.02.2024

5. Consent Agenda

(Action)

Personnel Recommendations- 5.16.2024

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
First readings of Policy 2255- Alternative Learning Experience
Second reading of Policy 6905- Site Acquisition
Interlocal Cooperative Agreement- Whatcom County, Behavioral Health 24/25
Interlocal Cooperative Agreement- Whatcom Discovery 24/25
Resolution #07-24- Surplus Personal Property
Election of WIAA representative
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Information from Board Directors and Student Representatives
Info from Bd Directors & Students Reps

8. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
School Improvement Plan Progress Updates- Lynden Middle School & Lynden Academy
Teaching & Learning Report

c. Finance and Operations

9. Policy
a. First Readings

Policy 2255- Alternative Learning Experience Courses

b. Second Readings
Policy 6905- Site Acquisition

10. Board Workshop
Superintendent Evaluation

11. Action Items
Interlocal Agreement- Whatcom County- Behavioral Health 24.25
Interlocal Agreement- Whatcom Discovery 24.25
Resolution #07-24- Surplus Personal Property
Election of WIAA Representative

12. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

