Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
6/6/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Approval of Agenda
3. Good News
On May 13th Lynden Academy 5 th graders took a field trip to Olsen Creek Seed Orchard for an opportunity to attend the Earth
Science Forest Tour. It’s a hands-on learning tour to experience the forest that supports us.
Lynden Academy is hosting their Share Fair/Field Day tomorrow, June 7th. The students will have a chance to display a poster
board on a topic of interest and then in the afternoon we will have crafts and games set up.
The three elementary schools will be hosting their annual Family Fun Nights at the end of the school year. This is a great
opportunity to celebrate the learning and achievements of our youngest learners.
The Lynden High School CTE Department nominated Mason Namminga as their top choice for the Phyllis Lawson Scholarship
awarded by the Washington Association of Career & Technical Administrators. He was then selected as one of the top 4
finalists in the state for his contributions to the CTE program at LHS.
Two Lynden teachers were nominated by community members for the first-ever Brown & Brown Excellence in Education
Award. Vossbeck TK teacher, Meagan Shelley, and LHS Agriculture Teacher, Bria Henthorn, were both honored at the May
22nd ice cream social as finalists.
Fisher Elementary wrapped up data reviews last week. This is an intense week-long process that analyzes student growth and
provides highlights on where improvement is needed. The Fisher Team is looking forward to keeping the momentum going
into the next school year.
Spring sports have come to an end. Congrats to the following teams and individuals:
Four Lynden golfers competed in the state tournament- Jack Stapleton (9th), Crew Price (20th), Kinsley Rector (20th)
and Lucy Jones (33rd).
Boys and Girls Track competed in the state tournament with the girls earning 3rd as a team. This is the first top-four
trophy in school history. Lynden also placed in various individual events with Sloan Dickson earning an individual state
title in the 800m.
Girls Fastpitch advanced to the state quarterfinals and went 2-2 overall at the state tournament capping off a
successful season.
Lynden Girls Tennis took 3rd as a team in the state tournament, led by a 3rd place individual finish in singles by Anna
Samoukovic and a 4th place finish by the doubles team of Kalanie & Rilanna Newcomb.
Boys Baseball dropped its semifinal game Friday, but rebounded on Saturday to defeat Anacortes and earn 3rd place
in the state tournament.

4. Meeting Minutes
Meeting Minutes 05.16.24

(Action)

5. Educator of the Year
Masonic Lodge Educator of the Year

6. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP/Payroll- May 15, 2024
AP/Payroll- May 31, 2024
Personnel Recommendations- 6.6.2024
Donation- Fisher PTA

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
LHS Science Curriculum Adoption
Consideration of approval of CTE 4-year plan
Policy 2255- Alternative Learning Experience Courses
Inspire Development Center- Lease Amendment
Resolution #08-24- WSSDA Prioritization of Local Control & No Unfunded Mandates
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Information from Board Directors and Student Representatives
Info from Board Directors & Students Representatives

9. Teaching & Learning Report
LHS Science Curriculum Adoption Recommendation

10. Action Item
LHS Science Curriculum Adoption

11. Superintendent Report
24/25 Student Board Representative Selection
CTE Annual Report
Superintendent's Report- 06.06.24

12. Action Item
Career & Technical Education- Approval of 4-Year Plan

13. Finance & Operations Report
Finance & Operations Report- 06.06.24

14. Policy
a. Second Readings
Policy 2255- Alternative Learning Experience Courses

15. Action Items
Inspire Development Center- Lease Amendment
Resolution #08-24- WSSDA Prioritization of Local Control & No Unfunded Mandates

16. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

