Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
1/11/2024 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
January is School Board Appreciation Month! Thank you to our five board directors for their commitment to the education and
well-being of our students. Your efforts in ensuring a positive educational experience for our students is appreciated.
Students in Mrs. Munkres' class at Fisher Elementary spent time learning about radio from KAFE 104.1 radio. Broadcasters
Dave and Alan recorded a spot for the morning KAFE Kids show about Christmas, which ran on December 15th.
This year, our Holiday Assistance Program coordinated by Family Community Services was able to provide 465 children with
gifts for the holiday. A huge thank you to our community sponsors and individual staff and community members who donated
and helped. We are so thankful for the generosity of this community.
Lynden Middle School ended the year with a spirit week! Students and staff led a fun-filled door decorating contest, parent
volunteers facilitated their PBiS store, and the week ended with an outstanding assembly where they celebrated their Food
Drive contributions and played community-building games.
Cascadia Daily News ran an article featuring LHS athlete Jesse Stewart and his journey as a deaf football player. A separate
article featured LHS student Brant Heppner and told the story of his journey to becoming a dual sport athlete in basketball and
football.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes 12.14.23

4. Consent Agenda
AP Payroll- 12.20.2023
Personnel Recommendations- 1.11.2024

5. Organization of the Board
Organization of the Board

6. Committee Assignments

(Action)

Committee Assignments

7. Information from the Audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
First Reading of Policy 5010- Nondiscrimination
First Reading of Policy 5161- Civility in the Workplace
Second Reading of Policy 2090- Program Evaluation
Approval of School Improvement Plans
Approval of Nondiscrimination Plan
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Reports
a. Teaching and Learning
School Improvement Plan Presentations- Lynden High School, Lynden Middle School, Isom Elementary

b. Superintendent
Nondiscrimination in Hiring Plan Presentation

c. Finance and Operations

9. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 5010- Nondiscrimination
Policy 5161- Civility in the Workplace

b. Second Readings
Policy 2090- Program Evaluation

10. Action Items
Approval of School Improvement Plans
Approval of Nondiscrimination in Hiring Plan
Action Items

11. Information from Board Members
12. Board Workshop
Discussion of Class Action Lawsuit regarding Social Media
Board Workshop

13. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

