Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

Board Meeting
Minutes
04/04/2024
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA 98264
1. Call to Order, Welcome & Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
Meeting called to order by Tonya Hickman at 6:32pm. Board of Directors in attendance were
Directors Hickman, Owsley, Brar, Martinez, and Verburg. Superintendent David VanderYacht and
Student Board Representative Cooper Graddon were also in attendance. Student Representative
Kyle Tucker was absent and excused.
2. Approval of Agenda
Director Brar made a motion to amend the agenda to add ‘WSSDA Equity Statement’ under
action items and the list of current WSSDA positions. Seconded by Director Martinez. Motion
carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 0-0; Board Vote: 4-0
Student Representative Cooper Graddon abstained. Director Owsley abstained.
Director Brar made a motion to amend the agenda to add ‘Diversity’ under action items and the
list of current WSSDA positions. Seconded by Director Verburg. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 0-0; Board Vote: 4-1
Director Martinez opposed.
Student Representative Cooper Graddon abstained.
Director Owsley made a motion to approve the amended agenda. Seconded by Director Brar.
Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 1-0; Board Vote:5-0

3. Meeting Minutes
Director Owsley motioned to approve the March 21, 2024 board meeting minutes. Seconded by
Director Brar. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 1-0; Board Vote: 5-0.
4. Consent Agenda
Personnel Recommendations dated April 4, 2024.
Director Owsley motioned to approve the consent agenda. Seconded by Director Verburg.
Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 1-0; Board Vote: 5-0.
5. Reports
a. Superintendent
Superintendent VanderYacht provided information related to consideration of school
impact fees to the board. He explained what impact fees are and what they can be used
for. He then explained what steps would need to be taken to pursue them with the city.
More in-depth discussion will happen at a future meeting where the board can discuss
pros and cons. Calculations should be in by the end of 2024.
b. Teaching & Learning
c. Finance and Operations
6. Information from the Audience
A parent, staff member, and member of the Citizens of Lynden Schools addressed the board
regarding the bond. She thanked the board for their work in learning about the need for the
bond to provide better facilities for our students. She shared her perspective on the work needed
at elementary schools and that this need is just as important as the need for a new high school.
She expressed her desire for the board to lead us toward a bond and openly support it.
A member of the Citizens for Lynden Schools addressed the board regarding the bond. He shared
that even though the bond did not pass in February, the facility needs are still there and they are
not going away. He expressed that he hopes the board will ask for the full $157.5 million bond
amount again so that the district does not have to ask for another bond in the near future.
A community member addressed the board regarding placing a bond on the ballot again. He
expressed that he believes August would be the best time to put it back on the ballot, however
he suggested that the board consider a reduction in the bond amount.

7. Board Workshop
The board continued discussion from the March 21st meeting regarding timing and scope of a
potential bond resolution. Superintendent VanderYacht specified what is included in the bond
resolution that is being considered tonight during action items. He also shared that interest rates
for bonds and known appraised values have contributed to more favorable conditions for a bond
to pass. The cost is estimated to be $1.36 per $1,000 of assessed value versus the $1.53 that was
estimated for the February special election.
8. Action Items
Resolution #04-24- General Obligation Bonds
Director Owsley motioned to approve Resolution 04-24- General Obligation Bonds to be put on
the ballot in the August special election. Seconded by Director Verburg. Motion carried by voice
vote.
Advisory Vote: 1-0; Board Vote: 5-0
Proposed Amendments and Additions to WSSDA positions
1. Local Board Adoption of Core Instructional MaterialsDirector Martinez motioned to approve proposed amendment for submission to WSSDA for their
position on Local Board Adoption of Core Instructional Materials. Seconded by Director Brar.
Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 1-0; Board Vote: 5-0
2. Local Control
Director Martinez motioned to approve proposed amendment for submission to WSSDA for their
position on Local Control. Seconded by Director Brar. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 1-0; Board Vote: 5-0
3. Goals
Director Brar motioned to approve proposed amendment for submission to WSSDA for their
position on goals. Seconded by Director Martinez.
Director Owsley motioned to amend the proposed position amendment to not remove the bullet
saying “WSSDA leads in policy development to promote safe, secure, respectful learning
environments for each and every student.” Seconded by Director Martinez. Motion carried by
voice vote.
Board Vote: 5-0

Director Martinez made a motion to approve the amended proposed position to include the
amendment above for submission to WSSDA. Director Verburg seconded. Motion carried by
voice vote.
Board Vote: 5-0
4. Local Control Legislation
Director Brar motioned to approve proposed new position for submission to WSSDA regarding
local control legislation. Seconded by Director Owsley. Motion carried by voice vote.
Board Vote: 5-0
5. Unfunded Mandates
Director Brar motioned to approve proposed new position for submission to WSSDA regarding
unfunded mandates. Seconded by Director Martinez.
Director Owsley motioned to change “will not support” to “will actively oppose”. Seconded by
Director Martinez. Motion carried by voice vote.
Board Vote: 5-0
Director Martinez motioned to approve proposed amended new position for submission to
WSSDA. Seconded by Director Verburg. Motion carried by voice vote.
Board Vote 5-0
WSSDA Equity Statement
Director Brar made a motion to approve the amended WSSDA Equity Statement for submission.
No second. Motion not carried.
WSSDA Diversity
Director Brar made a motion to approve the amended WSSDA position for diversity for
submission. No second. Motion not carried.
9. Policies
a. First Readings
Policy 2415- Performance-Based Pathway for High School Graduation
Director Martinez motioned to adopt Policy 2415- Performance-Based Pathway for High
School Graduation. Seconded by Director Owsley. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 1-0; Board Vote: 5-0.

Policy 3421- Child Abuse & Neglect
No action taken.
10. Information from Board Members
Director Brar expressed her desire to review the Board Handbook and the Policy 1220 as a group
during the board retreat.
Director Hickman suggested we put time allotments on agenda items for the board retreat so
that all agenda items are covered.
Director Martinez suggested that instead of discussing possible amendments to the policies
during board retreat, the board reviews any policy revisions during regular board meetings.
Director Hickman indicated that the approved WSSDA positions that were voted on and
approved tonight will be submitted to WSSDA by the deadline of April 8th in preparation for the
General Assembly.
11. Executive Session
Director Hickman stated that the board would be moving into executive session to discuss the
purchase and/or sale of real estate as allowed by RCW 42.30.110 until 8:50 pm. She further
stated that the board would not be taking any action during, or after, executive session.
At 8:50pm, Superintendent VanderYacht announced that the executive session would be
extended until 9:00pm.
12. Call Regular Meeting Back to Order
Director Hickman called the regular meeting back to order at 9:00pm.
13. Adjourn Meeting
There being no further business, Director Hickman motioned to adjourn the meeting at 9:01pm.

_______________________________
Tonya Hickman, President

____________________________________
David VanderYacht, Superintendent

