Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
4/4/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Lynden Middle School used the March Madness basketball tournament to generate college awareness. Classes chose a team
from the tournament to research and decorated their doors with information about the school including what the
requirements to get into that school are and what types of programs they offer. Students will end March Madness with a spirit
week full of college swag.
Students from Fisher Elementary's Honor Choir had the opportunity to perform at the San Juan Music Educators Association
Festival. Sixteen schools from Whatcom, Skagit, and Island counties participated in the elementary honor choir event. Schools
received the music pieces ahead of time and practiced on their own. All of the schools then came together for one rehearsal
and performed the pieces together. This was the first time Lynden students participated in the honor choir event.
Congratulations!
Lynden High School's Wind Ensemble also participated in the San Juan Music Educators Association Festival and received a
Superior rating for the large group event for the 30th straight year!
Lynden High School's top six-person Knowledge Bowl team proved itself one of the brightest in the state, recently capturing
8th place in the final statewide competition, this coming off a first-place finish at the district finals. Congratulations!
The Youth Mental Health First Aid course led by staff members Coral Bartlett and Stacey Anderson on March 23rd was a
successful event with 11 community members participating. This course for adults introduces common mental health
challenges of our youth, reviews typical adolescent development, and teaches a 5-step action plan for how to help young
people in crisis and non-crisis situations.
Lynden Middle School hosted a community-wide viewing of "Screenagers" on March 25th. This is an award-winning film
that depicts struggles over social media, video games, and academics. The film reveals how tech time impacts kids'
development and offers solutions on how adults can empower kids to best navigate the digital world and find balance. Over
30 attendees from both Lynden and Lynden Christian attended the event.
Lynden Middle School's Chess Club hosted their 2nd Annual LMS vs. Lynden Fire Department event. First responders from the
Lynden Fire Department, Lynden Police, Whatcom Sheriff's Office, and US Border Patrol & Customs participated in the event
where they competed against LMS chess club members. A great time was had by all!
Building leadership teams met last week to collaborate around Multi Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS). This work involving
over 50 professional educators representing each of our schools is an important step toward alignment through the
development of a common understanding of MTSS and Universal Design for Learning.

3. Approval of Agenda
The directors will approve or amend the meeting agenda, including the consent agenda, and make a motion to adopt.

4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes 03.21.24

5. Consent Agenda

(Action)

Personnel Recommendations- 4.4.2024

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
Impact Fees

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations

7. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
Consideration of Resolution #04-24- General Obligation Bonds
Consideration of proposed amendments and additions to WSSDA positions
First reading of Policy 2415- Performance- Based Pathway for High School Graduation
First reading of Policy 3421- Child Abuse & Neglect
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

8. Board Workshop
Facilities Planning

9. Action Items

(Action)

Resolution #04-24- General Obligation Bonds
Proposed Amendments and Additions to WSSDA Positions

10. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 2415- Performance-Based Pathway for High School Graduation
Policy 3421- Child Abuse & Neglect

11. Information from Board Directors and Student Representatives
Info from Bd Directors & Students Reps

12. Executive Session
- Discussion regarding the purchase and/or sale of real estate pursuant to RCW 42.30.110.
Executive Session- 04.04.24

13. Adjourn Meeting

