Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
2/15/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Congratulations to LHS student, Alex Wazny. He was named as the Regional Saxophone Winner at the San Juan Music
Educators Association's Solo & Ensemble Contest. He is headed to the state competition!
Over 150 Lynden Academy students and their parents visited the Lynden Heritage Museum in January. It was Lynden
Academy's best attended field trip since pre-Covid.
High schoolers from Lynden Christian have been visiting Fisher Elementary's Kindergarten and Transition to Kindergarten
classes every Thursday afternoon. This is part of LC's Plus Time program involving community service. High schoolers help the
younger students learn lessons about arts and crafts time, sharing, manners, taking turns and playing games. As LC begins their
2nd semester, a new group of students will be visiting Fisher kindergarteners as well as Isom Elementary kindergarteners.
Lynden Academy welcomed 23 new students at the semester change.
Congratulations to the FBLA team! Their participation in the FLBA Northwest Regional Conference resulted in 19 students
placing in various categories of the competition and qualifying for state!

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes 02.03.24
Meeting Minutes 02.08.24

4. Consent Agenda

(Action)

Personnel Recommendations- 02.15.24
Donation- 02.15.24

5. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items.
- Overnight/ Out-of-State Trip Request
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and

may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
Nursing Presentation
February 13th Special Election Results
Superintendent Report- 02.15.24

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
Annual Budget Forecast 23/24
Update on January 31, 2024 month-end close
Financial Report

7. Action Items
Overnight & Out of State Trip Request
Action Items

8. Legislative Update
Legislative Update

9. Information from Board Members
Board Meeting Logistics & Communication

10. Adjourn Meeting

