Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
6/20/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Approval of Agenda
3. Good News
For the Be The One Mentoring Program, there were 114 mentoring pairs at the end of the school year between LMS and LHS.
This exceeds our previous record by at least 16 pairs. Volunteers are continually stepping up to help students. They exceeded
over 1,600 mentoring hours this year.
The LHS Impact Club hosted a Bingo night for the Lynden Middle School ELRC students. This was the last of several Bingo nights
they hosted this year. The middle school students have a great time seeing the high school campus and getting to know high
school staff while they play Bingo and eat pizza together!
All schools and departments celebrated achievements of students and the completion of the school year over the past few
weeks. There is tremendous appreciation for the planners and doers that make these experiences happen.
Elementary schools hosted their annual Family Fun Night events to celebrate the end of the year. Our elementary PTA groups
work hard to coordinate this event for their schools and this year was no exception. A great time was had by all who attended
and parents enjoyed being able to celebrate with their students!

4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 06.06.24

5. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP/Payroll- June 15, 2024
Personnel Recommendations- 6.20.2024

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
Annual Report and Approval of the Alternative Learning Experience Program
Resolution #09-24: Washington Interscholastic Activities Association for a Fair, Safe and Nondiscriminatory Practice in
Athletics & Extracurricular Activities
Extracurricular Coaching Salary Schedule

Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Reports
a. Superintendent
Alternative Learning Experience Program- Annual Report
Annual Policy Reports

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
Transportation Presentation
Finance Report- May 2024

8. Board Work Session
Safety & Security Task Force Report & Recommendations

9. Board Workshop
Gender Inclusive Schools

10. Action Items
Approval of Alternative Learning Experience Program
Resolution #09-24: WIAA for a Fair, Safe and Nondiscriminatory Practice in Athletic & Extracurricular Activities
Coaching & Extracurricular Salary Schedule

11. Information from Board Directors
Information from Board Directors

12. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

