Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
3/21/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Four staff members at Lynden Academy attended the Washington Association for Learning Alternatives (WALA) conference in
Lake Chelan. They returned energized with knowledge to share about uniquely connecting with, and the meeting the needs of,
the families, students and staff in LA's alternative learning environment.
Over 150 students participated in a Teen Heart Screening held on March 7th. The event was hosted by Lynden HOSA
(healthcare) Club and Lynden Christian High School. The screening of high school students from both Lynden Christian
and Lynden High School included a review of their personal & family health history, blood pressure, height, weight, and body
mass index, an electrocardiogram (EKG), and an on-site physician review of their test results. Students also received chestcompression CPR and AED defibrillator training. The event was sponsored by local paramedics, EMT's, Peace Health
Cardiology, and Boston Scientific.
Congratulations to the Isom Elementary PTA! They were selected by the Washington State PTA- Region 8 as one of
the recipients of the R.E.G.I.O.N. Award for Winter 2023-2024. They are being recognized for their Read-a-Thon fundraiser
which raised over $12.000 in two weeks through community donations and sponsorships to support students who logged
reading minutes. These funds are intended to be used toward items that benefit students and staff, including grade level
enrichment opportunities, classroom grants and supplies, and learning tools and equipment at the school.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 03.07.24

4. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP/Payroll- March 15, 2024
Personnel Recommendations- 3.21.2024
Donation- March 21, 2024

5. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
Second reading of Policy 5005- Employment and Volunteers
Consideration of Interlocal Agreement with Bellingham School District
Consideration of an overnight trip request

Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
Mental Health Update Presentation
Initiative 2081- Parent Rights
Superintendent Report

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
Finance Report- 03.21.24

7. Policy
a. Second Readings
Policy 5005- Employment and Volunteers

8. Action Items
Interlocal Agreement- Bellingham School District
Overnight Trip Request

9. Board Workshop
Facilities Planning
Superintendent Evaluation
Board Workshop- 03.21.24

10. Information from Board Directors and Student Representatives
Information from Board Directors & Students Reps

11. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

