Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
3/7/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Isom Elementary's Character Strong word of the month in February was "Cooperation". Isom's tech lab was in need of
keyboard covers to use for the development of keyboarding skills. Isom Tech Coach, Mrs. Bowman, connected with LMS
woodshop teacher, Mr. Klassen, who created a design to meet their needs. With the help of Isom alum and current LMS
student, Owen Bennett, they helped build 28 keyboard covers!
Congratulations to Lynden High School wrestlers Belen Lopez, Christian Velasquez, and Clarence Valladares for qualifying for
the 2A state tournament. Belen Lopez brought home a 3rd place win while Christian Velasquez placed 12th in the state.
Both the girls and boys basketball teams secured a spot in the 2A state tournament and are headed to the
Yakima Sundome during the final week of February.
Lynden High School's performance of The Music Man opened last weekend and was a huge success. The show will continue
its run this weekend with performances on Friday, March 8th and Saturday, March 9th at 7:00pm and a matinee performance
at 3:00pm on Sunday, March 10th at Judson Auditorium.
Lynden High School boys and girls basketball teams and cheer squad joined Vossbeck students for a Teamwork Assembly on
February 20th. Team representatives shared the characteristics of a good teammate and Coach Roper connected the ideas to
the classroom and beyond. The basketball teams participated in a 4-on-4 scrimmage with 5th graders while the cheerleaders
led the school in several cheers.
Fisher 2nd grade student Tatem Lanksbury took the CKLA writing and literacy lesson a step further than what was required
during class and has written and illustrated several "Ouch Stories" to create a book series, even providing teasers to the next
book about to be published!
Isom and Vossbeck Elementaries celebrated I Love to Read month in February. Isom started the month with a kickoff assembly
and continued with a Read-a-Thon fundraiser which resulted in Isom students reading an amazing 162,272 minutes in the
month of February! Vossbeck kicked off the month with a Books and Breakfast event and continued celebrating with a "Read
My Shirt" day, a Poetry Day, a "Snack, Snuggle, and Read" event, and a book character dress-up day.
Fisher Elementary will be celebrating National Reading Month in March! Events planned include a book character parade, a
Read-a-Thon, an assembly, and a visit by The Cat in the Hat and Things 1 & 2.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes 02.20.24

4. Consent Agenda
AP-Payroll- 02.15.24
AP/Payroll- 02.29.24

(Action)

Personnel Recommendations- 03.07.2024

5. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
First Readings on Policies 5005- Employment and Volunteers and 3411- Accommodating Students with Seizures and Epilepsy
24/25 School Calendar
Overnight Trip Request
Resolution #03-24- Food Services, Meal Balances
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
Special Education Presentation

b. Teaching and Learning
Curriculum Process Update

c. Finance and Operations
Food Service Program Update

7. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 5005- Employment and Volunteers
Policy 3411- Accommodating Students with Seizure Disorders or Epilepsy

8. Action Items
Resolution #03-24- Food Service, Meal Balances
Overnight Trip Request
24/25 School Calendar

9. Information from Board Directors and Student Representatives
Board Legislative Committee Report
Board Facilities Committee Report
Board Finance Committee Report
Information from Board Directors & Student Representatives

10. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

