Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

Special Meeting
Lynden School District Board Room
516 Main St.
Lynden, WA 98264
2/20/2024 06:30 AM

1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Meeting Minutes
Meeting Minutes 02.15.24.pdf

3. Public Input
In preparation for discussion regarding the general obligations bond, the board encourages community members to submit input for the board's
consideration in writing or in person. Written comments can be emailed to the superintendent's office at lps-superintendent@lynden.wednet.edu and
must be received by 8:00pm on Monday, February 19th. Those who wish to address the board in person are welcome to attend the meeting.
Those wishing to address the Board in person must sign up on the sheet provided. Agenda items that may result in board action being taken during this
meeting include:
Resolution # 01-24- General Obligations Bond
Delegation to Superintendent for approval of For/Against Committees
Board Resolution- House Bill 2331
Board Resolution- Senate Bill 5462
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer
their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board
president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole
has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such
complaints must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about
instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

4. Board Workshop
Discuss Bond Resolution possibilities in relation to election timelines and scope of projects

5. Action Items
Resolution # 01-24- General Obligations Bond
Delegation to Superintendent for approval of For/Against Committees
Board Resolution- House Bill 2331
Board Resolution- Senate Bill 5462

6. Adjourn

