Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

Board Meeting
Minutes
02/15/2024
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA 98264
1. Call to Order, Welcome & Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
Meeting called to order by Tonya Hickman at 7:00pm. Board of Directors in attendance were
Directors Hickman, Owsley, Brar, Martinez, and Verburg. Superintendent David VanderYacht and
Student Board Representatives Kyle Tucker and Cooper Graddon were also in attendance.
2. Meeting Minutes
Director Verburg motioned to approve the February 3, 2024 board meeting minutes. Seconded
by Director Owsley. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0.
Director Brar motioned to approve the February 8, 2024 board meeting minutes. Seconded by
Director Owsley. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0.
3. Consent Agenda
Personnel Recommendations dated February 15, 2024.
Donations- 02.15.24
Director Owsley motioned to approve the consent agenda. Seconded by Director Brar. Motion
carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0.

4. Information from the Audience
A community member/staff member/parent/Citizens for Lynden Schools member read a letter to
the board regarding the bond that was not approved by voters during the February 13th election.
She requested that the board be actively involved in moving forward with putting the bond back
on the ballot in a future election.
A community member addressed the board regarding lack of support of the bond and expressed
that he would like the bond to be presented to the community again with the board’s active
support.
A community member addressed the board expressing that the bond is not ‘if’ but ‘when’. She
asked that the board put the bond back on the ballot as soon as possible. She expressed thanks
for the work done by the citizens group and asked the board for more help. She then expressed
thanks to Tim Metz and Ben Thomas for their presentation at Vossbeck elementary regarding
safety plans and protocols that are being implemented.
A community member addressed the board and reiterated that we do not need to apologize for
wanting the best for our community’s kids. He shared that there is a deficiency in education and
that the community has indicated that safety & security has been the most important deficiency
noted. He stated that we need to address the lack of safety immediately by putting the bond
back on a future ballot.
A community member expressed that the bond should be put out to vote again as soon as
possible and encouraged the board to be unified on good things for the schools. He asked that
the board not change the ask- all of the items included in the bond are needed.
Members of the board expressed their thanks to the audience members for speaking about their
concerns and desires for the future of the schools.
5. Reports
a. Superintendent
Superintendent VanderYacht shared information about the special election results. He
expressed appreciation to the board of directors for their support in releasing
information regarding the needs of our students and staff. He also thanked the Citizens
for Lynden Schools group and their exceptional investment of energy and time for the
students of Lynden leading up to the election. He shared that we received 57.1%
approval for the operations levy. This was the first opportunity for the community to
vote on the current services being provided by the district since COVID.

He shared that the bond did not pass with only 50.98% of voter approval- bonds need a
60% + 1 approval. He encouraged the board to come up with plan and path to discuss
publicly the pros and cons of putting it back out to vote and whether to make
adjustments to the bond amount and what projects it would cover. Discussion was held
on dates and deadlines for future elections. Board members directed the superintendent
to schedule a special meeting on Tuesday, February 20th at 6:30am to discuss whether
and when to pursue putting the bond back out for voting by the community. They also
expressed an interest in including public comment during that meeting.
Director of Student Services, Tim Metz, presented the board with information on the
district’s nursing services. Also in attendance were nursing staff members Kathy Dodson,
Aimee Speer, and Amber Spidell. Information presented included key responsibilities of
school nurses, a summary of the scope of work provided by school nursing staff, and
student data regarding students who are being served by district nursing staff. Mr. Metz
also explained that the team is currently reviewing all board policies and procedures
related to student health services and there will be some updates needed that will be
presented to the board in the coming weeks. Discussion was held regarding
authorization to administer medication, and the prevalence of and preparation for the
opioid crisis. Discussion was also held regarding the mental health portion of their job
responsibilities as well as whether parents are made aware of health concerns and
protocols involving their child.
b. Teaching & Learning
c. Finance and Operations
Director of Finance & Operations, Ben Thomas, presented the board with information on
the annual budget forecast for 23/24 as well as an update on the January 31, 2024
month-end close. He also reminded the board about the audit exit interview scheduled
for Friday, February 23rd.
6. Action Items
Overnight/Out-of-State Trip Request
Director Martinez motioned to approve the overnight and out-of-state trip request submitted by
LHS Vice Principal, David Kish, for an AVID field trip to several colleges in eastern Washington
and a college in Idaho on April 17-19, 2024. Seconded by Director Owsley. Motion carried by
voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
7. Legislative Update
Director Hickman provided the board with updates on the current legislative session. She
explained that she submitted a letter to legislators to provide written testimony on SB 5462

which would effect local control. Superintendent VanderYacht submitted a letter to legislation
regarding SB 2494 which would increase state funding. Director Verburg will consider sending
written testimony on 2494 as well. Director Hickman encouraged attendees to pay attention to
bills regarding local control and share thoughts with legislators when appropriate.
Director Brar shared that a town hall meeting with Senator Shewmake, Rep. Rule, and Rep.
Timmons is scheduled for this weekend in Ferndale and encouraged community members to
attend.
Superintendent VanderYacht explained that he has been working with Director Hickman on
advocacy as the board’s legislative representative. He encouraged the board to publicly discuss
their positions regarding specific bills and being transparent in that process.
Following the conclusion of the legislative session, Director Hickman expressed interest in the
board spending time and energy with WSSDA positions leading up to the General Assembly.
8. Information from Board Members
Director Owsley shared about his experience visiting Fisher Elementary today and observing
interventions and WIN (What I Need) time. He applauded the staff on the work they are doing
and the means by which they are tracking each student’s progress.
Following the recent board retreat, discussion was then held regarding board meeting logistics
and communications which included the development of adopting new and/or updated board
policies. He recommended focusing on the content of the policies first, and then if writing
conventions are needed, we address those during revisions between the first and second
readings. Amendments should be proposed through individual motions during a second reading
if needed and then a vote would take place, or moved to a third reading. Directors coming
prepared ahead of time with suggested amendments is necessary for efficiency.
Discussion then continued regarding meeting minutes and how to add particular details and
specific action items suggested by individual directors during meetings. Superintendent
VanderYacht explained that during informational reports, Robert’s Rules recommends that
suggestions/questions by board members not be included in board meeting minutes and that
only items listed as “action items” on the agenda should be entered into record through the
minutes.
Superintendent VanderYacht shared areas that have come up post Bond Planning Task Force
that may need to be addressed and brought to the board for action. Those needs include the
pursuit of Impact Fees which will include the need to update our long-range capital facilities

plan, playground and technology needs at Lynden Academy, appropriately rated playground
equipment for early learning, and options for construction delivery methods.
Discussion was held regarding Key Performance Indicators. The board expressed interest in
revisiting those in greater depth than time allowed at the board retreat.
Discussion was held regarding legalities of individual board members expressing their personal
opinions regarding ballot initiatives and legislative bills on social media.
9. Adjourn Meeting
Director Hickman motioned to adjourn the meeting at 9:15pm.

_______________________________
Tonya Hickman, President

____________________________________
David VanderYacht, Superintendent

