Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
5/2/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Approval of Agenda
3. Good News
Isom Elementary hosted their 1st annual STEAM Fair! The event showcased an impressive array of 87 projects from students in
Kindergarten through 5th Grade. Guest speakers from the community were also in attendance including a veterinarian,
internet safety advocate, Lego and robotics enthusiasts, local artists, and nursing professionals. Isom secured a generous grant
from the Lynden Noon Kiwanis to purchase robot kits which students can program and run from their laptops.
Approximately 45 AVID students from Lynden Middle School took a tour of Bellingham Technical College in order to start
exploring post-secondary options. This was a great opportunity for students who may want to attend college to see themselves
on a college campus.
Congratulations to the 51 Lynden High School band members who competed in the World Strides Heritage Festival in
Anaheim, California. Lynden competed against concert bands from across the United States and won the 2A division.
Students even got to visit California State University, Long Beach, UCLA, and enjoyed a trip to Disneyland!
Spring sports is up and running with over 314 students participating this season!
Fisher Elementary hosted a Career Day which gave students the chance to learn from community members about different
professions. Adults shared their love for their job and allowed the students to actively engage in career education and
gain ideas about what their future could be.

4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 04.13.24
Meeting Minutes 04.18.24

5. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP/Payroll- Apriil 30, 2024
Personnel Recommendations- 05.02.2024

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include

First reading of Policy 6905- Site Acquisition
Second readings of Policy 6700- Nutrition, 6701- Recess & Physical Activity, 6702- Wellness, 2124- Physical Education & Health
Class, 2413- Equivalency Credit Opportunities.
Interlocal Cooperative Agreement- Whatcom Detention Center
Resolution #06-24- WIAA Membership Renewal
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
School Improvement Plan Progress Updates- Isom Elementary & Lynden High School

c. Finance and Operations

8. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 6905- Site Acquisition

b. Second Readings
Policy 6700- Nutrition
Policy 6701- Recess & Physical Activity
Policy 6702- Wellness
Policy 2124- Physical Education & Health Class
Policy 2413- Equivalency Credit Opportunities

9. Action Items
Interlocal Agreement- Whatcom County Detention Center 24/25
Resolution #06-24- WIAA Membership Renewal

10. Information from Board Directors and Student Representatives
Info from Board Directors & Students Representatives

11. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

