1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 28, 2018
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
6 p.m. – Feb. 28, 2018 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(President,) Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Quenby Peterson,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and Ruth Rasmussen (recorder)
Audience:
 David McCluskey: Referencing recent student protests, Mr. McCluskey cited
concerns about the high school and middle school principals’ messages on the topic,
and he said he feels strongly that when school is in session, all students should be in
the classroom.
 Liz Hjelmseth: Expressed support for Dangerous Access Prevention and encouraged
the board to make a strong statement in support of the assault weapons ban,
background checks, and raising the age limit for purchase of guns from 18 to 21.
Additionally, she asked the board to create a policy against the arming of teachers.
 Kim Ninnemann: Voiced strong opposition to arming teachers.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
 Student Protests: Dr. Baker reiterated comments in his recent message to students,
staff and families. He received more emails in 24 hours on this topic than on any
other since joining the district. The district’s messaging emphasized that the primary
goal was to ensure all students felt safe and respected, whether they participated in
the protest or not. Going forward, the district will continue to support students while
making sure they understand administrators and staff want them to be at school.
 Inclement Weather: During the afternoon of Feb. 23, a snowstorm hit mid-day,
creating hazardous driving conditions in certain parts of the city. Some elementary
schools stayed open late to accommodate students experiencing transportation
problems. Staff response throughout the district was commendable.
 2018 Bond: The bond passed by 70.13 percent of the vote. Dr. Baker expressed
appreciation to the school board, staff, students and community volunteers for their
support, and to the voters for demonstrating once again how much they value our
students.
 2018-19 Budget: The state legislature is still in session, and school districts around
the state continue to grapple with unknowns. Dr. Baker briefly summarized budget
priorities for the coming year.

2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
3.0
3.1

3.2

4.0
4.1

CONSENT ITEMS: Ms. Diaz Hackler made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to
approve the following consent items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of minutes of the Jan. 26, 2018 special meeting; Feb. 6, 2018 school board
visit; and Feb. 7, 2018 regular meeting
Resolution 5-18 – 2017-18 School Board Regular Meeting (Revised)
Approve Donations
Allied Arts Agreement for Services (#1718-132)
Western Washington University Agreement – Sehome Graduation (#1718-134)
Whatcom Community College tennis courts (#1718-142)
Whatcom Community College soccer field (#1718-143)
Personnel Recommendations
EL-3 – Treatment and Communications with Public, Parents and Students
Annual Affirmative Action Progress Report
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-4: Staff Treatment, Compensation and
Evaluation
At the Feb. 7, 2018 regular meeting, the consent agenda included a monitoring report on
EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation. In accordance with Policy
Governance, the board discussed whether the superintendent is in compliance with
the policy and if any policy revisions are needed. (See Attachment A for a summary of
comments.) During the discussion, Ms. Diaz Hackler asked how the district can ensure
that all community members are informed of district initiatives, even if they don’t have
students in the schools or direct connections to staff or administrators. Dr. Baker said
every household in the city receives Inside Schools periodically throughout the school
year. Additionally, his presentations to various civic and community groups allow people
not connected to the schools to learn more about the district. Dr. Baker added that he
would welcome suggestions from the board on ways to engage more broadly with the
community. After further discussion, the board agreed no revisions to the EL-4 policy are
currently needed.
Board Response to Monitoring – Ends 2.1 (part 2) - Student Competence
At the Feb. 7, 2018 regular meeting, the board heard a monitoring report, including a data
set, on Ends 2.1 (part 2) Student Competence. In accordance with Policy Governance, the
board discussed whether the superintendent has achieved the goals established in
the policy. (See Attachment B for a summary of comments.)
Study Session – Open Public Meeting Act
RCW 42.30.205 - Training requires that public officials be trained every four years on
public records, records management, and open public meetings requirements. RCW
42.30.120 references personal liability in the form of a civil penalty of $500 to $1,000 for
violations of any provisions of Chapter 42.30. Attorney Lynette Baisch of Porter, Foster
Rorick LLP gave a presentation to the board on these topics and responded to questions.

5.0
5.1

5.2
5.3

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports/Board Visits: The directors discussed their
participation in various school-related activities and the recent WSSDA Legislative
Conference. Discussion items included:
 Reflections on student protests – general discussion
 Design Your Future – Ms. Peterson attended this event on Feb. 21 at Bellingham
High School
 Addressing Homelessness: Ms. Mason is serving on the Planning Committee for the
Bellingham Home Fund and briefly discussed Family Promise of Whatcom County.
 Family Engagement: Ms. Bashaw attended an event on Feb. 24 at Shuksan Middle
School that brought the district’s African families together for a potluck and social
activities. Translators were on hand to help with three different dialects spoken by
attendees. This event was supported by a grant from Whatcom Community
Foundation.
Discussion of Recent School Board Visit – n/a
GP-7.2: 2017-18 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
School Board Resolution: The board members discussed the idea of putting forth a
resolution on school safety. It was agreed to continue the conversation at a future board
retreat.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting:
 Ms. Mason assessed the meeting with an overall rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 9:05 p.m.

7.2

Kelly Bashaw, School Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: 3/14/18

