DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 6, 2018
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

2.0

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
6 p.m. – June 6, 2018 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason, Quenby Peterson,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and Ruth Rasmussen (recorder).
Audience: Matthew Goggins addressed the board, citing concerns about the School
Board Student Safety Resolution. Mr. Goggins said he feels it is inappropriate for the
school board to take a stand on a controversial political issue. He said he would have
preferred for the board to hold a public hearing on the topic in lieu of creating a formal
resolution.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of comments:
 End-of-Year Activities: June 14 is the last day of school and energy levels are
high. Dr. Baker thanked the board members for their commitments to participate
in upcoming graduation ceremonies.
 High School Schedule: Dr. Baker summarized some of the changes to be
implemented in the coming school year as a result of the High School Schedule
Survey Analysis.
 Update on district office: The administrative team is continuing to explore
options for renovation of the district office. Dr. Baker discussed plans currently
being explored and shared questions that have been raised as well as potential
benefits.
CONSENT ITEMS: Ms. Peterson requested a revision to Item 5.1 of the May 23 draft
meeting minutes: The final bulleted item will be revised as follows: “Referencing the
recent Family Tech Night at Options High School, Ms. Peterson asked…” Ms. Diaz
Hackler then made a motion, seconded by Ms. Peterson, to approve the following
consent agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of minutes of the May 23, 2018 regular board meeting (revised)
Approval of Investments – May 2018
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – May 2018
Resolution 12-18, Delegation of Authority to WIAA
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

3.0
3.1

4.0
4.1
4.2

POLICY GOVERNANCE
Ends 2.1 – Student Competence – Policy Revisions: At the May 23 regular meeting,
the board reviewed a revised draft policy. Following discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a
motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the revised policy. Unanimous affirmative
vote.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports: The board members discussed their participation in
various district and school-related activities.
Board Visit – Whatcom Middle School: General discussion.

5.0
5.1

NEW BUSINESS
School Safety Resolution: Mr. Benjamin noted that during the editing process, some
verbiage was inadvertently omitted from Item 4 of the resolution. The board’s intent, he
said was the for sentence in the final document to read as follows: “The board calls upon
all firearms sellers in our local and extended community to voluntarily refrain from
selling any assault weapons and to refrain from selling any firearms to individuals under
21 years of age.” In the final version of the document, the reference to assault weapons
was omitted. Following discussion, the directors agreed not to revise the document.

6.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Peterson assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 3 (good).

.2

Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:04 p.m.

Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, Board President
Attest:
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

2

