DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 7, 2018
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
November 7, 2018 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason, Quenby Peterson,
Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
• Chris Smith – Is a paraeducator in the Life Skills program at Wade King
Elementary. Although paraeducators are hourly workers, they are not unskilled, and it
is not a job that just anyone can do. They are skilled in de-escalation and put students’
needs above their own wants. They have learned their skills from co-workers. These
are not skills that can be picked up on the street. He challenges everyone to live on a
paraeducator’s salary for a month.
• Cathy Riber – Is the principal’s secretary at Silver Beach Elementary and loves her
job. The staff is hard working and are always looking for ways to better serve the
students. All district staff deserve to be treated as one schoolhouse. We all work hard,
and we are all necessary to give the students what they deserve. We should be treated
with dignity and respect.
• Connie Kelly – She started 18 or 19 years ago as a 1:1 paraeducator at Roosevelt
Elementary and now works at Bellingham High School. She is also a co-president for
the Bellingham Association of Service Employees (BASE). She read a statement
from a high school head secretary who has worked for the Bellingham School District
for many years and who previously worked at an elementary school. She is a single
mom and the cost of living is too high in Bellingham, so she resides in Whatcom
County. Her position requires responsibility and leadership. Her daughter, who
recently started college, qualified for a state need grant. Please spend time
considering this reality. Is this what you mean by a fair, equitable distribution of
resources? We ask that the contract be opened.
• Shelly VanEpps – She has worked in Special Education for 11 years and is a single
mom of two girls, one in high school and one in college. She has an early childhood
degree. She is starting a second job and will be working 55 hours per week. She has
had to stand in line at the food bank many times, and she has no choice but to work
two jobs so that she can pay her bills.
• Chris Smith – Is here to share statements from other BASE members who are not
here or choose not to speak. One of those works at Roeder and at two other jobs to

1.4

make ends meet. The BASE raffle pays out $3000 per year in scholarships for
students for college, and we care about our community. Another BASE member was
sitting with a student who had a six-minute seizure, and they were seconds away from
calling 911. Can you imagine going to your second job after a day like that?
• Alex McLean – Spoke in opposition of the location of the bus garage. He has had
conversations or exchanged emails with several people including Bellingham City
Councilpersons, City of Bellingham employees, Bellingham Public Schools
employees and the architect. He has a background in environmental science,
environmental journalism and sustainable design. He is disappointed that no other
sites were considered for the location of the bus garage. He asked the board to scuttle
the present plan and find a better long-term outcome for the community.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Budget/Finance - The legislature has developed different funding structures for
different employee groups. State Superintendent Chris Reykdal will hold a
community forum at Options High School on November 20 to talk about OSPI’s
priorities and his vision for transforming K-12 education. Dr. Baker has shared with
the board the Budget Reprioritization Guiding Principles that was shared with the
district leadership team today. Leadership, as well as the entire staff and the
community, will be engaged in the process. There is some awareness of budget
concerns among staff and parent groups that Dr. Baker has met with, but not everyone
is aware of the challenges the district may face.
• Central Kitchen – We are close to getting all the equipment installed at the Central
Kitchen location. A tour will be arranged for the school board as the opening for the
kitchen gets closer.
• Facilities – We are down to the last few weeks of construction for Sehome High
School. Staff will begin moving into the new facility over winter break. Because it is
a new school, there will be new furniture, and staff will slowly begin to move their
materials to the new school as their rooms are ready. There will be events to
commemorate the closing of the old school, including a tour during the last week of
December. The first day of second semester will be focused on students and staff
becoming acquainted with the new building.
• The Bellingham Promise is in the process of being updated. Equity, diversity and
inclusion will be imbedded into the Key Strategies. The leadership team has been
working on language changes and how equity, diversity and inclusion might be
referenced in the document. Dr. Baker shared different formats for the updated
document. Once we have a draft it will be shared to gather feedback.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5

Approval of Minutes of the October 17, 2018 Regular Board Meeting
Approval of Investments – October 2018
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – October 2018
Resolution 25-18, Alderwood Elementary School Educational Specifications
Resolution 26-18, Parkview Elementary School Educational Specifications
2

2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15

Resolution 28-18, Adopting Order Dispensing with Records Index, Policy 4040R
Resolution 30-18, Certifying District’s Levy Collections for 2019 Calendar Year
NWESD 189 New Pedagogies for Deep Learning Framework Contract (#1819-074)
Sendan Center Agreements for Services (#1819-077 and #1819-078)
Allied Arts of Whatcom County Contract (#1819-079)
Whatcom CTE Dual Credit Consortium MOU (#1819-088)
Sound Strategy Agreement for Services
Approve Updated Policy 6215
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.

3.0
3.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1 Expectations of Superintendent
A discussion was held about whether changes should be made to the policy. Ms. Peterson
will make some suggested changes that can be discussed at the December 5, 2018 regular
meeting. Mr. Benjamin acknowledged the amount of work that goes into staff monitoring
and updating district policies.

3.2

Board Response to Monitoring – EL-5 Communication and Counsel to the Board
Following discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to
approve the monitoring response document as presented (Attachment A). Unanimous
affirmative vote.

4.0
4.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
B/SR-1 Board/Superintendent Connection
No changes.
B/SR-2 Delegation to the Superintendent
No changes.
B/SR-3 Superintendent Evaluation
No changes.
B/SR-4 – 3.1.1 Monitoring Response Document
There was discussion regarding whether the board president should refine all board
members’ comments into a final summary and bring it to the full board for approval. The
initial compilation that contains individual board members’ comments would be attached
to the meeting minutes. Mr. Benjamin will send examples from other school districts, so
the board can review them together at the next board retreat. There will be no changes to
the policy at this time.

4.2
4.3
4.4

5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
▪ Mr. Benjamin thought the principal’s presentation during this week’s board visit to
Northern Heights was terrific. The staff and students have embraced the 1:1
technology program, and they are doing remarkable work with students on the autism
spectrum.
3

▪
▪

▪

▪

Ms. Mason appreciated the staff and students who participated in the visit and
especially enjoyed the AIMS (Access in the Mainstream Setting) program
presentation.
Ms. Peterson thinks the ELL linkage meeting went well and good feedback was
received. Regarding the Northern Heights school visit, she is hoping that some of the
resources available in the AIMS program can be offered to students who do not have
a formal autism diagnosis. She also shared that of the 15 national merit scholars, three
came from employees in the Whatcom County Prosecutor’s office.
Ms. Diaz Hackler believes great families were chosen to attend the ELL linkage, and
the families did a wonderful job sharing their experiences. She shared that she has
witnessed friends and family members being belittled for speaking a different
language, and she believes we all need to give people the space to speak in their
native language. Regarding the Northern Heights school visit, the principal’s
intentional language was very appreciated, and she was also impressed with Autism
Specialist Beth Nelson’s presentation.
Ms. Bashaw was impressed with the eighth grade student who translated for her
parents at the ELL linkage. She has spoken with a co-worker at Whatcom Community
College who believes there may be online programs available for families who are
interested in learning English at home. Ms. Bashaw noted that the board could have
spent hours with the families who attended. Regarding the visit to Northern Heights,
she thought the jobs program and the buddy bench are impressive, as well as how
students are welcomed to school each morning.

5.2

GP-7.2 – 2018-19 Annual Board Agenda, Revised

6.0

NEW BUSINESS
▪ WSSDA Annual Conference: Nov. 14-17, 2018 (Spokane, WA) – Ms. Bashaw, Mr.
Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason and Dr. Baker will attend.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:26 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________
4

