DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 9, 2018
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
6 p.m. – May 9, 2018 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(President), Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Superintendent Greg
Baker, and Ruth Rasmussen (recorder). Ms. Peterson previously informed the directors
that she would be absent.
Audience: n/a
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
 Capital projects: Advisory committees have been formed as one of the preliminary
steps in planning for the rebuild of two elementary schools: the Alderwood
Educational Specifications/Design Advisory Committee and the Parkview
Educational Specifications/Design Advisory Committee. A third committee will be
formed at a future date in connection with the rebuild of Sunnyland Elementary
School. The goal is to have all three schools built by 2022.
 Student Safety Board Resolution: Dr. Baker discussed communications plans that
are under consideration. These include issuing a press release and adding a message
to the district website. The board reacted favorably to these proposals. Following
discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, that in addition to
communications referenced above, a letter from the board and the resolution would
be sent to:
o city of Bellingham and Whatcom County Council officials
o state legislators (Districts 40 and 42); U.S. Senators – Washington State; and
U.S. representatives (Congressional Districts 1 and 2)
o gun sellers in Whatcom and Skagit counties
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin said Moms Demand Action has requested a copy of the resolution and
have invited him to an upcoming meeting. It was agreed that if more than two board
members decide to attend this event, it will be posted as a special meeting.

2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9

CONSENT ITEMS: Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve
the following consent agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of minutes of the Apr. 18 special meeting/public hearing and the April 18
regular meeting.
Approval of Investments – April 2018
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – April 2018
Resolution 10-18, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Resolution 11-18 – Acceptance of Bellingham High School Field Renovation
Agreement for Services with Salish Sea Experience
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
EL-2 Monitoring Report – Organizational Continuity

3.0
3.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE
Monitoring Report Ends 1, Ends 2, Ends 3 (combined report): Dr. Mike Copland,
Deputy Superintendent, and Brian Rick, Director of Research and Assessment, discussed
the report and data set and answered questions from the board. Discussion items included
the following:
o the evidence of favorable trends for four- and five-year graduation rates for
Hispanic and ELL student populations and continued decline in dropout rates,
especially for Hispanic students;
o dropout rates for students with IEPs have also fallen, though not as dramatically
as the decline for the other subgroups;
o increase in overall student access to CTE courses this year and positive trends in
terms of increased female student participation in those courses;
o the need for continued exploration of whether technology interface is a factor in
third grade Smarter Balanced scores, which are below state averages;
o the significant increase in student enrollment in high school physical education
courses, which is directly attributable to the new high school schedule this year;
o whether future reporting on discipline rate trends could include more detailed
numbers on student subgroups;
o the connection between Project Free Education and increased participation in
high school athletic programs.

4.0
4.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-6 – Academic Standards and Practices: At the
Apr. 18 regular meeting, the consent agenda included a monitoring report on EL-6,
Academic Standards & Practices. In accordance with Policy Governance, the board
discussed whether the superintendent is in compliance with the policy and if any
revisions to the policy are needed. Following discussion, Ms. Mason made a motion,
seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to accept the monitoring response document (Attachment A)
as submitted, with no recommended change to the policy. Unanimous affirmative vote.

4.2

Board Response to Monitoring – EL-8 – District Calendar: At the Apr. 18 regular
meeting, the consent agenda included a monitoring report on EL-8, District Calendar. In
2

accordance with Policy Governance, the board discussed whether the superintendent is in
compliance with the policy and if any revisions to the policy are needed. Following
discussion, Ms. Diaz Hackler made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to accept the
monitoring response document (Attachment B) as submitted, with minor edits, with no
recommended change to the policy. Unanimous affirmative vote.
5.0
5.1

STUDY SESSION
Study Session – Social Emotional Learning and Middle School Science Curriculum
Materials
 DTL Directors Charisse Berner and Trina Hall facilitated a discussion with the
board and presented a PowerPoint (Attachment C). Discussion included an
overview of the work of the Middle School Science Adoption Committee and the
Social and Emotional Learning Curriculum Advisory Group.

6.0
6.1

6.4

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
 Mr. Benjamin reminded the directors that their previously agreed upon deadline
to complete the WSSDA self-assessment is May 25, 2018.
 Ms. Bashaw attended a recent PTA-sponsored celebration of cultures event at
Birchwood Elementary School.
Discussion of Recent Community Linkage Meeting: The directors discussed highlights
of the April 25 meeting with IB families at Wade King Elementary School.
Discussion of Recent School Board Visit: The directors briefly discussed their
takeaways from the May 1 board visit to Happy Valley Elementary School.
GP-7.2: 2017-18 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review

7.0

NEW BUSINESS

8.0
8.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Mason assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable)
Adjournment: 7:47 p.m.

6.2
6.3

8.2

Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, School Board President
Attest:
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

3

