DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 23, 2018
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
3.0
3.1

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
6 p.m. – May 23, 2018 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6 p.m. Present: Directors Camille Diaz
Hackler (Vice President), Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason, Quenby Peterson,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and Ruth Rasmussen (recorder). Ms. Bashaw previously
informed the directors that she would be absent.
Audience: n/a
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
 2018-19 Budget Update: Dr. Baker and Dr. Sangster, Assistant Superintendent of
Finance and Operations, updated the board on recent budget developments and
reviewed revenue projections through 2021-22.
 Attendance Areas PreK-12 Standing Committee: Dr. Baker summarized the
committee’s work in recent years, which resulted in adjustments to elementary and
high school attendance areas. Assistant Superintendent Steve Clarke and Executive
Director Rob McElroy are co-chairs of the committee, which has resumed work that
focuses now on attendance areas at the middle school level. Mr. McElroy presented a
PowerPoint showing the makeup of the committee, projected new housing
developments, and Consideration Factors outlined in Policy 3130.
CONSENT ITEMS: Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve
the following consent agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of minutes of the April 25 community linkage meeting; the May 1 board
visit; and the May 9 regular meeting
Whatcom Discovery Program Interlocal Cooperative Agreement (#1718-157)
FACES Northwest Agreement (#1718-160)
Authorization to Call for Bids – Sehome Stage Lighting Equipment
Personnel Recommendations
Agreement for Services with Salish Sea Experience
Personal Services Contracts
POLICY GOVERNANCE
Review Governance Process Policies GP-1 through GP-6: The board briefly discussed
the policies, including item 3.a in GP-6: all proposed expenditures must have majority
approval of the Board of Directors at a regular or special meeting. It was agreed that

going forward, when discretionary expenditures are considered, the board will act upon
them through a formal motion. The directors also agreed no changes to the policies are
needed at this time.
4.0
4.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-2: At the May 9 regular meeting, the consent
agenda included a monitoring report on EL-2, Organizational Continuity. In accordance
with Policy Governance, the board discussed whether the superintendent is in compliance
with the policy and if any revisions to the policy are needed. Following discussion, Mr.
Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Peterson, to indicate on the response
document (Attachment A) the superintendent is in compliance with the policy and to
approve the narrative as discussed, with no changes to the policy. Unanimous affirmative
vote.

4.2

Board Response to Monitoring – Ends 1, 2, and 3: At the May 9 regular meeting, the
board heard a monitoring report, including a data set, on Ends 1, Ends 2, and Ends 3. In
accordance with Policy Governance, the board discussed whether the superintendent has
achieved the goals established in the policies and if any changes to the policies are
needed.
 Ends 1 – Strategic Mission & Vision: Ms. Peterson made a motion, seconded by
Ms. Mason, to indicate on the response document (Attachment B-1) that the
superintendent is making reasonable progress towards achieving the goals in the
policy and to approve the narrative as discussed, with no changes to the policy.
Unanimous affirmative vote.
 Ends 2 – Outcomes Focused on Knowledge: Board responses to Item 1 on the
monitoring response worksheet were as follows:
o b: is making reasonable progress towards achieving the goals (Ms.
Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, and Ms. Mason)
o c: is making reasonable progress towards achieving the goals, but a great
degree of progress is expected in some areas (Ms. Peterson)
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to indicate on the
response document (Attachment B-2) that the superintendent is making reasonable
progress towards achieving the goals in the policy and to approve the narrative
with minor edits as discussed, with no changes to the policy. Unanimous
affirmative vote.
 Ends 3 – Outcomes Focused on Character & Action: Mr. Benjamin said it
seemed cumbersome to use three forms to respond to the combined monitoring
report. This will be a discussion item at the next board retreat. Ms. Peterson made
a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to indicate on the response document
(Attachment B-3) that the superintendent is making reasonable progress towards
achieving the goals in the policy and to approve the narrative with minor edits as
discussed, with no changes to the policy. Unanimous affirmative vote.

2

5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
 In response to an invitation from the group, Mr. Benjamin recently attended a
local Moms Demand Action meeting to discuss the Student Safety Resolution.
 Mr. Benjamin reminded the directors that they had agreed to complete the
WSSDA self-assessment by May 25.
 Mr. Mason and Ms. Diaz Hackler shared reflections with the board on the May 20
Latino Summit at Shuksan Middle School.
 Referencing the Family Tech Night at Options High School, Ms. Peterson asked if
families could access some of the evening’s presentations on the district website.
In response, Director of Technology Kurt Gazow said the presentations are
available on the Tech Night Presentations page.

5.2

GP-7.2: 2017-18 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review

6.0

NEW BUSINESS
 Ends 2.1 – Student Competence policy revisions: Ms. Bashaw and Ms.
Peterson were part of a board committee that worked with Dr. Baker, Dr.
Copland, and Research and Assessment Director Brian Rick to review the current
policy and recommend changes, if warranted. The board reviewed a draft policy
reflecting the committee’s recommended changes. Final board action on the
recommended changes will take place at the regular meeting on June 6, 2018.
CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable)
Adjournment: 7:35 p.m.

7.0
7.1
7.2

Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, Vice President
Attest:
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved:

3

