ATTACHMENT B
2-28-18 meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document

B/SR 3.1.

Board Member: All (Final Compilation)
Policy Monitored: Ends 2.1, part 2, Student Competence
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 2/28/18 discussion

Date Report submitted: 2-7-18

The board has received and reviewed the superintendent’s monitoring report, including the data set.
Following the board’s review and discussions with the superintendent and his representatives, the
board makes the following conclusions:
1.

Ends Reports:
The board finds that the superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the policy.
b. is making reasonable progress towards achieving
the goals. (4)
c. is making reasonable progress towards achieving
the goals, but a greater degree of progress is
expected in some areas. (1)
d. is not making reasonable progress in achieving the
goals established.
e. cannot be determined

1.

Executive Limitations Reports
The board finds that the superintendent:
a. is in compliance.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.
c. is making reasonable progress toward compliance
d. is not in compliance or is not making reasonable
progress toward compliance.*
e. cannot be determined

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.









The report shows commendable progress closing the graduation rate gap with the district’s
high performing comparable districts, along with moving us above the state average in recent
years.
It is also very important to note improving graduation rates across the board in important subgroups, i.e., Hispanic students, ELL students, students with an IEP and students in poverty.
This report reflects the positive impacts of the investments made in English Language
Learners and the Family Engagement program, especially for our Hispanic population.
Connecting this progress to increased efforts with younger students, and leadership’s studies
of why some of our students do not graduate (“94” project,) is very encouraging.
BSD’s graduation rates have increased by 8% in the last 5 years and have moved from near
the state average in 2010, to 5% above the state in 2016.
A lot of work has been done to increase graduation rates. However, the board continues to
think that district success is not measured by graduation rates alone.

3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 Continuation of trying to figure out how to support our students that access our special
education services. Continue working with our community partners that serve our families in
a variety of ways (medical, legal, housing, parenting etc…)
 Continuing to focus on closing the achievement gap across all populations and buildings.
 Continuing to identify strategies and resources to combat the impacts of poverty
4. Comments on the report itself.
 Thank you for continuing to expand the data we look at (not just our usual comparables) and








being increasingly creative (differing ways of looking at sub-groups, poverty etc).
Pleased to see that the support BSD has provided to our ELL program as well as the family
engagement team seems to be making a difference in graduation rates of our Hispanic
students.
Poverty continues to be a strong indicator as to whether a student will graduate.
Appreciated the data in the report.
Potential to include more data on Community Transitions students to provide better
representation of their numbers in the report.
Thank you for all of the hard work on this report.

5. Possible changes to the policy: n/a

