1.0
1.01
1.02

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE SCHOOL BOARD SPECIAL MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 25, 2018
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
2 – 5 p.m., July 25, 2018 – Whatcom Middle School, 810 Halleck St., Bellingham, WA
Roll Call:
Directors Kelly Bashaw (President), Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby
Peterson, Jenn Mason, and Superintendent Greg Baker

2.0
2.01

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS/DISCUSSION
2018-19 Annual Board Calendar: The board reviewed and discussed GP 7.2 –
2018-19 annual board calendar. The discussion included a review of proposed school
board adoptions, board visits, special meetings, and proposed dates and topics for
linkages and study sessions. Approval of the final version of GP 7.2 (see Attachment A)
will occur at the Aug. 8, 2018 regular meeting.
2.02 WSSDA: Board Self-Assessment Model – General discussion and review of the
assessment’s questions and responses.
2.03 WSSDA: Board of Distinction Application – The deadline for submission of the
application is Sept. 20. Staff will organize next steps.
2.04: Discussion re: Policy Governance Items
• Ends 1, 2, and 3 policies: Discussion as to whether the board wants to do one
evaluation that combines their responses to Ends 1, 2, and 3 monitoring responses. It
was agreed to continue the current process, keeping responses separate at this time.
2.05 Board Resolutions – Parameters
• General discussion regarding the parameters in passing a board advocacy type
resolution, similar to the school safety resolution and what would prompt the board to
consider a resolution of this type. Summary of discussion:
▪
▪
▪
▪

▪

Parameters could be added to the board handbook.
Examples of when a resolution would be passed: Large public outcry; many
boards considering same resolution; impacts students.
Resolutions are just one example of a tool that can be used within the broader
world of advocacy.
The board in general does not use resolutions for advocacy. Guidelines could,
however, articulate why – i.e., it can be hard to determine what issues/groups
should have a resolution, etc. However, the board might choose to use a
resolution for advocacy in some compelling circumstances.
Next steps: staff will work on draft language outlining these thoughts; the board
will review further and consider placing language in board handbook.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
July 25, 2018

2.06

Other Items as Determined
• Ends Equity Policy – Discussion as to whether the board wants to develop such a
policy. It was agreed that the board members would read the WSSDA Road Toward
Racial Equity policy and continue this discussion at the Aug. 8 board meeting.
• Seating Arrangements for Directors at Board Meetings – general discussion with
agreement to keep current seating for now.
• Consider Use of Microphones for Directors at Board Meetings – general
discussion.

3.
3.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Adjournment – 5 p.m.

Kelly Bashaw, School Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved:

2

